REPUBLIC
FOR WHICH IT STANDS ONE NATION
UNDER GOD, INDIVISIBLE WITH
LIBERTY AND JUSTICE FOR ALL.
PLEASE THE ROLE OF COUNCIL
OUR
DISH HERE FOR HARRISON HERE A
PERSON HERE CUSTOMER WATSON
HERE COMES MY DENHA HERE
CUSTOMER ONE HERE MAYOR TAYLOR
HERE CUSTOMER I'M YOUR CUSTOMER
AKMAN HERE CUSTOMER BRIGS YOUR
CUSTOMER CARNEL APSA WE HAVE A
QUORUM.
>> WE HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCILOR WATSON SIMPLY COUNCIL
MEMBER OF DENHA DISCUSSION
OF THE AGENDA FAVOR POAGS.
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
DO WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ILLUSTRATOR'S
OMEIR WE HAVE TODAY THE
PLEASURE OF A REPORT FROM THE
CHAIR OF OUR INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION FROM FROM AFAR.
I UNDERSTAND CERCONE THE CON
CARTER IF YOU'RE ON ZOOME CAN
YOU RAISE YOUR HAND PLEASE?
MR. CARTER WILL BE JOINING THE
BARWAY.
>> YOU GOT A GOOD EVENING,
MAYOR TAYLOR MEMBERS YOU CAN
HEAR ME ALL RIGHT.
YES WE CAN.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
>> I JUST HAVE A BRIEF REPORT
THIS EVENING.
FIRST OF ALL, OUR TRAINING
COMMITTEE DID MEET WITH THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT TRAINING
OFFICERS RECENTLY AND WE WERE
BRIEFED ON ALL OF THE TRAINING
THAT OUR OFFICERS ARE CURRENTLY
RECEIVING.
OH, LAST REPORT WE RECOMMENDED
REGARDING TRAINING AND SO WE
ARE PURSUING THAT ISSUE ALSO AT
OUR LAST MEETING, CHIEF
ANDERSON IN HIS COMMAND STAFF
JOINED US AND THAT WAS A VERY
GOOD MEETING AND WE WOULD PLAY
EXCELLENT RELATIONS FINALLY ON
MAY TWENTY EIGHT AT OUR REGULAR
MEETINGS WE ARE HAVING A PUBLIC
FORUM, A COMMITTEE THAT CAN
COME OUT AND MEET THEM.
>> I IS GOING TO BEGIN AT SIX.
WE HAVE A REASON SIX WE WILL
HAVE SOME REFRESHMENTS AND
WE'LL BE INTRODUCING AT SIX
THIRTY WE PLAN TO ACTUALLY
START THE MEETING.
THERE WILL BE NO QUESTIONS THAT
I AND WE ARE INVITING THE
PUBLIC TO COME OUT.
WE HOPE TO SEE MEMBERS OF OUR
HERE IN THE NIGHT WHO ARE
LISTENING OR WATCHING THE
MEETING
ON TV.
>> IT IS GOING TO BE ASKED AT
THE WEST FRENCH LIBRARY AND WE
ARE CERTAINLY LOOKING FORWARD
NOW FOR THAT AND THAT THERE ARE
NO QUESTIONS AT ALL.
WE THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
>> WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
AT PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING A CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES
WHETHER HERE OR ONLINE WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
THE TIME OUR CLERK IN ALL
INSTANCES WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED,
WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
>> OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
ANDREW SUGARMANN
CITY COUNCIL.
I AM ANDY SUGARMANN.
I AM AN ATTORNEY HERE IN TOWN
WITH KITTY AND PHILBRICK.
I AM SPEAKING TODAY ON BEHALF
OF 716 PARODY PROPERTY DIRECTLY
IMPACTED BY THE PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT OF SEVEN THIRTY TWO
PACKARDS THE FIVE CORNERS.
>> YOU WOULDN'T KNOW THIS
PROPERTY WOULD BE IMPACTED IF
YOU LOOK AT THE SITE PLANNING
DRAWINGS WHAT'S BEEN SUBMITTED
TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
TO THIS COUNCIL OUR PROPERTY OR
OUR CLIENT'S PROPERTY IS THE
DOMINOES THAT THE TRIANGULAR
POINT THE OWNER OF THAT
PROPERTY WHAT'S BEEN DEPICTED
TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
WAS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING
COMMISSION WE BELIEVE
ERRONEOUSLY THIS WAS A PROPERTY
THAT LOOKS TO BE A PLAZA, A
PAVILION AND OPEN AREA DOESN'T
SHOW THE DOMINOS BUILDING
DOESN'T SHOW THE FACT THAT THE
PROPOSED FOURTEEN STOREY
BUILDING THERE COMPLETELY
ENVELOPS OUR CLIENTS PROPERTY
ON THE SOUTH SIDE AND BOTH
SIDES AS IT'S SHAPED LIKE A V
GOING AROUND THE PLANNING
COMMISSION HAD AN OBLIGATION TO
CONSIDER THE DETRIMENTAL
IMPACTS OF ADJOINING PROPERTIES
.
NONE WAS DONE.
THERE IS A PERFUNCTORY COMMENT
IN THE STAFF REPORT THAT
INDICATES THERE IS NO ADVERSE
IMPACT.
WE SUBMITTED A FOIA REQUEST.
WE RECEIVED THAT RESPONSE.
WE'VE GONE OVER THAT RESPONSE.
THERE WAS NO DISCUSSION, NO
STUDY, NO CONSIDERATION GIVEN
OF THIS PARTICULAR PROPERTY
ADJOINING THIS FAIRLY MASSIVE
DEVELOPMENT.
>> WELL, THE DEVELOPMENT MAY IN
FACT BE LAUDABLE AND NOT HAVE
IMPACT.
WE DON'T KNOW THAT THERE WAS NO
STUDY OF HOW THE WIND WILL BE
AFFECTED BY HAVING THIS
PROPERTY THIS FOURTEEN STOREY
BACKSTOP DIRECTLY BEHIND OUR
PROPERTY.
THERE WAS NO CONSIDERATION
GIVEN OF THE SHADE CAST BY THAT
PROPERTY.
WE DO KNOW AND I SUBMITTED TO
THE COUNCIL AND TO THE MAYOR BY
EMAIL A PACKAGE WITH THREE
EXHIBITS THE TWO OF THOSE
EXHIBITS ARE THE SITE PLAN
DRAWINGS.
THOSE SHOW THIS BUILDING AND
SHOW OUR CLIENTS PROPERTY AGAIN
AS AN OPEN AREA APPEARS TO BE
THE PLAZA EVERY OTHER BUILDING
DEPICTED IN THOSE DRAWINGS IS
IN A SOLID FORM SHOWING THERE'S
A BUILDING THERE FOR WHATEVER
REASON THE PLANNING COMMISSION
IN THIS AND THIS COUNCIL WERE
LED TO BELIEVE THAT OUR
CLIENT'S PROPERTY IS SIMPLY AN
OPEN AREA, THAT IT'S PART
OF THIS DEVELOPMENT THAT IT'S
ALREADY SOMEHOW OWNED BY THE
DEVELOPER.
NONE OF THAT IS ACCURATE.
IT IS A FUNCTIONING BUSINESS AT
THIS POINT OF DOMINOES.
THE ADVERSE IMPACT OF THIS
PROPERTY WILL BE CATASTROPHIC.
THERE IS NO WAY FOR THIS
BUILDING TO GO AROUND THAT
PROPERTY AND NOT IMPACT.
WE BELIEVE THIS IS PREMATURE
THAT IS THAT MY THIRTY SECOND
WHAT I DID PLEDGE TO YOU THIRTY
SECONDS AND WE DIDN'T GIVE YOU
A THIRTY SECOND.
OK I WILL WRAP UP AND THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
AT THIS POINT IT IS PREMATURE
FOR THIS COUNCIL TO BE
CONSIDERED EVEN FOR A FIRST
READING THIS PROPOSAL WITHOUT
THAT STUDY, WITHOUT THAT
ANALYSIS IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO
KNOW WHAT THE DETRIMENTAL
DETRIMENTAL IMPACT MIGHT BE.
WE THEREFORE ASK THAT IT BE
TABLED OR NOT CONSIDERED.
WE HOPE THAT WILL BE THE CASE
AND IF NOT WE ARE PREPARED TO
PURSUE ALL AVAILABLE OPTIONS TO
ASSURE THAT THE LAW WAS
FOLLOWED.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM
GOODMAN OR ADAM GOODMAN IS ON
ZUM ADAM GOODMAN GO AHEAD AND
SPEAK TO THE FLOOR TO SUPPORT
OF ENTRY TO SO WE HAVE A
HOUSING CRISIS AND PUT SOME
COLOR ON US BEYOND WHAT WE KEPT
LOOKING AT TYLO I'VE HEARD FROM
PROFESSOR FRIENDS THAT THEIR
STUDENTS CAN'T CONCENTRATE IN
CLASS BECAUSE OF HOUSING STRESS
THIS SPRING YOUR EVENTS ON
CAMPUS HOUSING WAS FALL WITHIN
THREE HOURS OF OPENING
APPLICATIONS FOR RETURNING
STUDENTS AND AT AN EVENT LAST
YEAR JENNIFER HALL SAID THAT
STUDENTS ARE INCREASINGLY
MOVING OUT TO YPSILANTI AND
COMMUTING AND THIS IS CAUSING A
DOWNSTREAM EFFECT WHERE OUR
HOUSING COMMISSION VOUCHER
RECIPIENTS ALREADY CAN'T AFFORD
GROUCHING IN ANN ARBOR GETTING
PRICED OUT OF YPSILANTI AND
OF COURSE A MONTH AGO YOU ALL
FORMERLY RECOGNIZED OUR DIRE
NEED FOR MORE HOUSING AT ALL
INCOME LEVELS IN RESOLUTION R20
TWENTY FOUR ONE ZERO NINE.
SO NO PROJECT NO SINGLE PROJECT
IS GOING TO SOLVE ALL OF THIS
THAT'S HAPPENED THREE TWO
PACARD WILL MAKE BIGGER ATTEMPT
THAN MOST THAT WILL BRING SIX
POINT SIX MILLION DOLLARS TO
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND AND
FOR CONTEXT OUR BUDGET IS THE
CITYWIDE MILLAGE THAT WE HAVE.
IT'S GOING TO RAISE ABOUT SEVEN
POINT TWO MILLION THIS YEAR.
SO THIS ONE PROJECT COMES CLOSE
TO DOUBLING THAT AT ALL ALSO
DIRECTLY PROVIDES THREE HUNDRED
SEVENTY SIX DWELLING UNITS
OF HOUSING IN A VERY DESIRABLE
LOCATION VERY NEAR THE CAMPUS.
>> I THINK IN THIS PARTICULAR
LOCATION IT'S GOING TO HELP,
YOU KNOW, HAVING ALL OF THAT
NEW YOU KNOW, PEOPLE LIVING
THERE IS GOING TO HELP
REVITALIZE AND ACTIVATE A
COMMERCIAL AREA THAT'S BEEN A
LITTLE BIT TROUBLED LATELY AND
OF COURSE IT'S ALMOST ELECTRIC
AS OTHER SUSTAINABILITY
FEATURES IT'S GOING TO HAVE
LIMITED CAR PARKING,
ENCOURAGING WALKING AND YOU
KNOW OUR VMT REDUCTION IN
TRAFFIC SAFETY.
>> GHOLSTON I WILL SAY FROM A
PROCESS STANDPOINT I'M NOT
ENTIRELY THRILLED THAT THIS IS
COMING FORWARD AS OPPOSED
SIMPLY BECAUSE I BELIEVE THAT A
BUILDING LIKE THIS IN A
LOCATION LIKE THIS SHOULD BE
PERMITTED BY RIGHT RIGHT NOW
IT'S NOT WHAT COULD BE BUILT IN
SEE WHEN ARE WOULD A
FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT PROJECT
FROM THIS?
SO IT IS WHAT IT HAS TO BE I
GUESS.
BUT I SEE PUTTEES AS A SYMPTOM
OF BROKEN ZONING CODE THAT
URGENTLY NEEDS MAJOR REFORMS
FORCING SO MANY DEVELOPMENTS
THROUGH THIS EXPENSIVE AND
ONEROUS PROCESS IS NO WAY TO
ACHIEVE THE SCALE OF CHANGE
THAT WE NEED TO ADDRESS OUR
HOUSING CRISIS BUT FUNDAMENTAL
REFORM OF OUR ZONING CODE IS
NOT BEFORE YOU TONIGHT.
THIS PROJECT IS IT'S A
FANTASTIC PROJECT.
I HOPE YOU ALL OF IT.
YES.
OH, AND I THINK THERE MIGHT BE
A TYPO ON THE AGENDA SAYS THE
CURRENT ZONING IS OUR POLICY
BUT IT'S IF YOU READ THE
CONTENT IT'S C 1A R THAT'S ALL.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX NO
.
MAYOR ALEX LOWE WILL BE JOINING
US ON ZOOME ALEX GO.
HI THIS IS ALEX LO CALLING FROM
THIRTY THREE FORTY FERNWOOD I
JUST WANT TO AGREE WITH AND
DOUBLE DOWN ON WHAT ADAM
GOODMAN JUST UH JUST SAID I
THINK HE SAID IT FAR BETTER
THAN I COULD HAVE.
THE ONE THING I WOULD LIKE TO
ADD IS THAT IF THIS DOES HAVE
TO BE APPROVED I THINK THERE
SHOULD BE SOME ADDITIONAL
FLEXIBILITY IN ALLOWING THE
BUILD THE BUILDING UH ON THE
OWNERS UH BUT UH BY THE OWNERS
CHOICE TO BE UP TO TWENTY
FLOORS RATHER THAN THE MEASLY
FOURTEEN FLOORS THAT UH THAT
HAVE BEEN SET.
>> THANK YOU.
HAVE A GOOD EVENING
.
I'M IS JOINING US ON ZOOME CALL
THE PHONE NUMBER FIVE THREE
FOUR GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
CAN YOU HEAR ME.
HELLO.
YES WE CAN HEAR YOU I MOTOWN
ANOTHER IF YOU'D OR NOT THE
TEDDY THAT IS THE QUESTION
EDDIE IS A USEFUL TOOL IN OUR
ZONING CODE THE UDC IT CAN BE
USED OR CAN BE ABUSED
OVERSAVING YOU WILL HAVE THE
FIRST READING FOR REZONING TO
SEE ONE ERRATA PUDI BUT FOR NOW
LET'S REVIEW SOME OF THE USES
AND ABUSES.
>> LET ME GIVE YOU A QUOTE IF
THESE SHOULD NOT BE USED THERE
AN APPROPRIATE ZONING CATEGORY
AND IN THIS CASE THERE IS ONE
THE ONE THEY ARE NO I AM NOT
TALKING ABOUT SEE ONE ON
TONIGHT'S AGENDA THE
APPLICATION OF PACARD IN STATE
COUNCIL MEMBER LISA JUST SAID
THAT QUOTE ON SEPTEMBER 5TH
TWENTY TWENTY THREE ABOUT THE
APPLICATION FOR SOUTHTOWN ON
SOUTH STATE STREET.
IT WAS CORRECT IN THE FIRST
HALF OF THAT STATEMENT
INCORRECT IN THE SECOND HALF
BUT THAT WAS ONLY ONE OF MANY
ERRORS THAT LED TO THAT
PROJECT
INAPPROPRIATELY BEING APPROVED
AT SEA WHEN THEY ARE WITH
VARIANCES AND CONDITIONS AT
THIS EXACT SAME PROJECT BEEN
APPROVED OF THE PD AT SOUTHTOWN
WE WILL BE GETTING THIRTY FOUR
UNITS OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING OR
ABOUT THREE MILLION DOLLARS IN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUNDS.
YOU WILL NEED TO RECONCILE THAT
STATEMENT WITH TONIGHT'S
APPLICATION.
CONSISTENCY IS VITALLY
IMPORTANT IN ZONING LAW WHICH
IS YOU CAN'T HAVE IT BOTH WAYS
.
>> I WON'T GO INTO DETAIL ABOUT
HOW THE CITY HELPED ANOTHER
DEVELOPER CHEAT THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND OUT OF NINE
MILLION AND NINETY THREE UNITS
I MISSED BY MIMICKING A PUTIT
LOWERTOWN IN TWENTY SEVENTEEN I
WILL REMIND PEOPLE THAT VOICES
AT THE TIME WERE VERY LOUD
CLAIMING KIDS WEREN'T VIABLE
JUST ANOTHER MONTH OR WHO LATER
THE CITY APPROVED A PEER NEARBY
THAT CONTRIBUTED HALF A MILLION
DOLLARS TO THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND CONSISTENCY IS
VITALLY IMPORTANT FOR TWO OTHER
PROJECTS IN THAT AREA THAT WERE
APPROVED WITH BOTH PROVIDING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS OR
DOLLARS.
THEN THERE WAS THE
INAPPROPRIATE USE OF IT FOR 15
MONTHS.
WASHINGTON LET ME READ YOU A
CITATION FROM THE UDC RAISED
ABOUT THAT WHEN 451 UP FOR
APPROVAL.
THE UDC SAYS THAT A PDF SHALL
NOT BE ALLOWED.
IT IS NOT PRIMARILY TO AVOID
THE IMPOSITION OF STANDARDS
REQUIRED OF OTHER ZONING
CLASSIFICATIONS OR OTHER CITY
REGULATIONS.
THAT'S ARTICLE TWO, SECTION
FIVE POINT ONE THREE POINT
NINETY.
WE HAVE BEEN VERY INCONSISTENT
WITH USING AND ABUSING OR
INAPPROPRIATELY AVOIDING PADS.
WE NEED TO RECONCILE OUR MESS.
ZONING IS LAW.
YOU ARE MAKING A MESS OF OUR
LAW.
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN THAT OCCURS?
YOU ACTUALLY RISK LOSING A
POLICE POWER AND THE ABILITY TO
ENFORCE OUR ZONING LAW.
THE COURTS HAVE SPOKEN ON THAT
IN THE PAST.
PLEASE CLEAN UP OUR MESS.
BE CONSISTENT AND YOU ARE NOT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MICHELLE
HUSE
IS JOINING US ON ZOOME.
>> GO AHEAD MICHELLE.
HELLO.
SO UM, THIS UH FOUR THREE TWO
PACARD I LOVE TO AT THE END
LOOKED AT THE CO-OP THERE THE
CO-OP HOUSE FOR ABOUT TEN
YEARS.
THE CO-OP OFFICE IT'S NOW
CALLED THE SYLVIA RIVERA HOUSE.
>> UM AND UM I CAN TELL YOU
THAT THIS IS A VERY APPROPRIATE
PLACE FOR THIS TYPE
OF BUILDING.
IT'S THAT WHOLE NEIGHBORHOOD IS
ALL STUDENTS AND A LOT OF THEM
ARE CRAMMED INTO UM UH SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES THAT ARE REALLY
OLD.
THEY ARE BACKING DOWN AND ARE
AND THEY'RE CRAMMING A WHOLE
BUNCH OF PEOPLE IN THE OFFICE.
>> OF COURSE THEY'RE BE IN
SHAPE.
>> UM, SO YES, PLEASE APPROVE
THIS PUDI UH, THE NEXT THING I
WANTED TO TALK ABOUT IS ON
NONRESPONSE.
>> IT LOOKS LIKE THE THE RFP
FOR THE ONLINE RESPONSE PROGRAM
WAS CLOSED WITH NO ONE BIDDING
ON IT AND IT SEEMS TO ME LIKE
THIS WAS AN INEVITABLE RESULT
OF THE CITY INSISTING ON SOME
THINGS THAT WE ALREADY KNEW IT
WAS IMPOSSIBLE TO SATISFY FROM
YOU KNOW, WE KNEW THAT FROM THE
LAST RFP PROCESS.
SO CAN YOU GUYS COMMENT ON WHAT
WHY THE CITY MADE THE CHOICE TO
MAKE IT IMPOSSIBLE FOR THIS
UNARMED RESPONSE PROGRAM TO GET
A BID AND IF THE CITY STILL
COMMITTED TO MAKING THIS
UNARMED RESPONSE PROGRAM HAPPEN
AND IF SO, WHAT WILL YOU DO
DIFFERENTLY NEXT TIME TO MAKE
SURE THAT IT IS SOMETHING THAT
SOMEONE COULD BEAT ON AND UM
AND WHAT IS THE TIMELINE FOR
THE NEXT RFP TO BE ISSUED?
AND THEN THERE'S ALSO THE
QUESTION OF THE THREE POINT
FIVE MILLION DOLLARS IN ARPA
FUNDING THAT WE WERE GOING TO
SPEND ON THAT.
IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT WE
WON'T BE MEETING THE DEADLINE
TO FOR THAT MONEY TO BE SPENT.
DOES THAT DOES THAT MEAN THAT
WE'VE CHOSEN JUST NOT TO TAKE
THAT MONEY FROM THE GOVERNMENT
OR IS THERE SOME WAY THAT WE
CAN STILL SPEND THAT MONEY ON
ON OUR RESPONSE OR IS THERE
SOME WAY THAT WE CAN SPEND IT
ON SOMETHING ELSE OR YOU HAVE
THIS OPPORTUNITY ENTIRELY
BECAUSE I DON'T KNOW IN OUR
CIRCLES WE TALK A LOT ABOUT HOW
THE CITY MADE SOME BAD
DECISIONS IN THE PAST AND CHOSE
NOT TO TAKE THE HALF A MILLION
DOLLAR GRANT FROM THE STATE OR
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO BUILD
A SIDEWALK AT TRAVER ROAD.
AND IF WE TURNED DOWN THREE
POINT FIVE MILLION DOLLARS IN
FEDERAL FUNDING BECAUSE WE
BUNGLED SOME STUFF THEN THAT'LL
BE AN EVEN BIGGER MISTAKE.
AND IT'S ALSO WE'RE ALSO
MISSING OUT ON THE SERVICES
OF THE ON LINE RESPONSE PROGRAM
DURING THAT TIME.
>> I THINK THAT OK, THANKS.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHY
STROUD.
EVENING.
GOOD EVENING DENNIS.
>> IT'S ON IT'S NOT I I LOVE
YOU.
>> WON'T YOU TELL ME YOUR NAME
THIS NOT CONCERT WE CAN
CERTAINLY HEAR YOU IN THE
HOUSE.
OKAY.
UM HI FIRST THANK YOU FOR
RESPONDING TO MY PHONE CALLS
AND MY EMAILS AND THIS IS AN
OLD ISSUE.
THIS IS NOT ON THE AGENDA
TONIGHT.
I APOLOGIZE FOR MY BAD TIMING
BUT I WAS UP HERE ABOUT FIVE
YEARS AGO.
>> WHAT IT WAS LOOKS VERY
DIFFERENT AND ON THE SAME ISSUE
ROUND ABOUT NIXON ROAD, THE
PREVIOUS SPEAKER JUST SPOKE
ABOUT TRAVER AND SHE SAID ABOUT
HER FIRST ISSUE ABOUT OLD
HOUSING.
SHE CALLED IT REALLY OLD AND
BROKEN DOWN.
>> WELL, I AM REALLY OLD.
EIGHTY YEARS OLD NOW AND I USED
TO BE A COUNTY COMMISSIONER
BACK IN THE 70S WHEN THERE
WEREN'T AS MANY WOMEN AND I'M
JUST SO THANKFUL TO SEE YOU ALL
HERE TONIGHT.
THE MEN COURSE SIMPLE.
VERY SIMPLE.
>> ALL I'M ASKING IS
RECONSIDERATION RECONSIDERATION
OF THREE ADDITIONAL NIXON ROAD
ROUNDABOUTS, THREE ADDITIONAL
NIXON ROAD ROUNDABOUTS AND A
ONE POINT THREE MILES OF ROAD
THAT END IN OR THAT PASS TO
PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
LOGAN AND CLAY AND I DON'T CARE
WHAT THE ENGINEERS SAY ABOUT
SAFETY AND ROUNDABOUTS I DO NOT
WANT TO ROUNDABOUTS IN FRONT
OF MY SCHOOL WHERE MY
GRANDCHILDREN WILL GO TO SCHOOL
BECAUSE THE PURPOSE ROUNDABOUT
IS TO KEEP TRAFFIC MOVING.
I KNOW NOW THEY SAY IT'S
CALMING.
>> I FOLLOW THIS ISSUE FOR
SEVEN YEARS AND CHRIS IS STILL
THE ENGINEER ON IT, YOU KNOW
AND HE AND I MAY DISAGREE ON A
FEW THINGS.
ALL I'M ASKING BECAUSE ALL
OF YOU VOTED FOR IT I DON'T
THINK THERE WAS A TIME TO
DISCUSS IT IS RECONSIDER ONE
OF THE THREE ROUNDABOUTS I'M
NOT TELLING YOU HOW TO VOTE.
>> I'M JUST ASKING YOU PLEASE
FOR RECONSIDERATION.
>> OK, THANK YOU I TWENTY TWO
SEVENTY ONE PLACIDE ANN ARBOR
MICHIGAN AND I USED TO BE
KATHLEEN STROUD WHEN I WAS A
COUNTY COMMISSIONER AND NOW I'M
GRANDMA COOKIE.
>> I THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL
WITHOUT THEY AT
THE LAB WERE BOTH PRESENT AT
THE LAST MEETING.
I THINK THEY'RE HERE FOR ALL
RIGHT.
THAT'S EVER OCCURRED TO ALL
THESE ARE NEW.
>> YES.
YES.
OK, GOOD.
COME FORWARD.
LOREX UH I WOULD LIKE TO
RECOMMEND THE FOLLOWING THREE
APPOINTMENTS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE AIRPORT
ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
ROSEMARY NEILY FALKINER TO THE
ANN ARBOR PUBLIC ART COMMISSION
MURRIETTA PORTER TO THE
BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS PAUL
DARLING AND KEVIN COX TO THE
CABLE COMMUNICATION COMMISSION
.
DAVID PITTMAN TO THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION.
SARAH MILLS TO THE COMMISSION
ON DISABILITY ISSUES.
RACHEL HAWKINS AND ROSARITA
RACHEL AND ZACHARY DAYMAN TO
THE DESIGN REVIEW BOARD WILLIAM
KINLEY AND LORI SINGLETON TO
THE DOWNTOWN AREA ADVISORY
COUNCIL.
>> STEPHEN PALMS TO THE
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
STEPHEN BRUMMER TO ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION BOARD
HENRY MCQUEEN TO THE ELIZABETH
DEAN FUND COMMITTEE.
RICHARD WIELAND TO THE ENERGY
COMMISSION NO.11 AND JOHN
MIRSKY TO HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION.
JENNIFER ROSS TO THE HOUSING
AND HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY
BOARD.
KAREN ONCER TO THE HOUSING
BOARD OF APPEALS.
LISA STETLER AND ANGELA
RASMUSSEN TO THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION
.
LESLIE STAMBAUGH TO THE HURON
RIVER WATERSHED COUNCIL.
JANICE BODHRAN TO THE LOCAL
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY.
MICHAEL SARAH CAUCUS TO THE
PARKS ADVISORY BOARD.
RACHEL SKYLAR'S TO THE PUBLIC
MARKET ADVISORY COMMISSION.
JAMES BUSH TO THE RECREATION
ADVISORY COMMISSION.
MARK RAHAB TO THE RENTERS
COMMISSION JORDAN ELSE AND
JEFFREY LOWE'S AND ROBERT
TRAPLINE TO THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION.
PETER HOAK TO THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS.
CANDICE BRIERRE MICHAEL DANIEL
CHRISTOPHER MAGIN AND CHRISTINA
LUSSAC TO THE I WOULD ALSO LIKE
TO COMMEND THE FOLLOWING
NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO ELIZABETH
DENHA FUND COMMITTEE DAVID
PENLAND TO THE PARKS ADVISORY
COMMISSION, LAWRENCE O'CONNELL
TO THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
>> JULIE WEATHERBEE.
>> I'LL ALSO NOTE PRESENTATIONS
TO THE RENTERS COMMISSION
MICHELLE LUHNOW TO THE ANN
ARBOR AREA TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORITY BOARD RICHARD
CHIANG'S AND SEEMY BAR TO THE
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
BONNIE GABBERT'S TO THE
ELIZABETH FUND COMMITTEE.
KIMBERLY SUNDARI TO THE HOUSING
AND HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY
BOARD AND GINK GRANGER OR
DANGER TO THE HOUSING BOARD
OF APPEALS KRISTIN SCHWEIK
HUFFER TO THE HOUSING
COMMISSION PATRICIA JENKINS TO
THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
BRANDON BOND TO THE PUBLIC
MARKET ADVISORY COMMISSION.
JEFF NEMETH TO THE RANTERS
COMMISSION DEADEND CHEN
THEY
HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE CONSENT AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBERS STRONG SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER BISHOP
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER
BRAKE'S YES I JUST WANTED TO
COMMENT ON A COUPLE OF ITEMS.
ONE I AM EXCITED EVERY TIME WE
HIT A MILESTONE WITH REGARDING
THE DARTON VANDERMEER
PEDESTRIAN TUNNEL EXCITING TO
SEE THIS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ON THERE.
THIS IS ONE STEP CLOSER TO
BUILDING THAT IMPORTANT
PEDESTRIAN CONNECTION AND I
ALSO WANTED TO JUST TAKE A
MOMENT TO THANK BRIAN STEIGLITZ
FOR HIS SERVICE WITH THE CITY
AND TO WELCOME MCCORMACK AS
INTERIM PUBLIC SERVICES AREA
ADMINISTRATOR.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA.
I'M I'M SORRY.
>> THANK YOU.
READ YOU COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS
MENTIONED THE BERTAN BENDEMEER.
I'M REALLY EXCITED TO SEE THAT
TOO AND I WANTED TO CALL IT TO
THE ITEMS THAT I THINK ARE
REALLY THINGS THAT WE CAN BE
PROUD OF THAT ARE UNIQUE TO ANN
ARBOR AND GET PEOPLE DOWNTOWN
AND ACTIVATED WHICH IS TOP
OF THE PARKINSONIA LUNCH.
SO I'M REALLY EXCITED TO SEE
THOSE AND THEN A PUBLIC ART
PROJECT MURALS THAT BRIDGE
THAT'S ALSO ON TONIGHT TO
BEAUTIFY SOME OF THE OLDER
INFRASTRUCTURE.
THIS HAS REALLY BEEN BETWEEN
THE RAILROAD OPERATORS, THE
CITY AND THE STATE A
COORDINATED EFFORT TO MAKE THIS
ART PROJECT COME ALIVE AND I'M
ENTHUSIASTIC TO SUPPORT IT
TONIGHT TO MOVE FORWARD FURTHER
DISCUSSION TO WORK TOGETHER.
>> I THINK YOU KNOW, I JUST
WANTED TO MENTION THAT I'M
EXCITED TO SEE CONSENT AGENDA
ITEM TWELVE ABOUT THE SIDEWALK
SHOPS AND SEE THAT THERE'S A
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT TO CLOSE THE
SIDEWALK GAPS AND ENSURE THAT
ALL SIDEWALKS AND THIS IS
SPECIFICALLY AND IN STONE
SCHOOL ROAD AND EISENHAUER TO
PACARD FOR ALL PART OF A
CONTINUOUS NETWORK AND JUST
ENHANCE PEDESTRIAN SAFETY.
SO I'M HAPPY TO SEE THAT
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON THEIR
PIECE I POSED THE CONSENT
AGENDA IS APPROVED.
>> ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTING IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THAT SATISFYING THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESPECT TO SEE A SEVEN CANINE
C11 K-12 SEET FOURTEEN C A 16 C
18 K 19 20 21
BELIEVE THAT'S
ALL WE NOW COME TO A SET
OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE COUNTY PARTY MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL IN THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST
TO SPEAK AT A PUBLIC HEARING
YOU NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE.
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
THE SUBJECT MATTER OF A PUBLIC
HEARING THAT IS TO SAY THE
SPECIFIC ITEM ON THE AGENDA TO
WHICH THE PUBLIC HEARING
RELATES TO SPEAKERS IN HOUSE
AND ONLINE IN ALL INSTANCES
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED, WHEN YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
>> OUR FIRST PUBLIC HEARING
TODAY IS PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
ONE AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND
SECTION FIVE 281 DCPI FIVE TO
NINE EIGHT A FIVE TO NINE SIX
AND FIVE TO NINE EIGHT
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
VELTMAN CODE OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS ANYONE ONLINE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> MARK SKIRBALL GO AHEAD.
HELLO MY NAME IS MIKE STONE AND
I'M CALLING IN FROM THE FIFTH
WARD TO SUPPORT THE REZONING
OF SOUTHERN LEBANON STREET TO A
COMMUNITY IN ORDER TO BUILD
DESPERATELY NEEDED HOUSING.
>> OUR ZONING PLAN IS
DISTRIBUTED BY ITS GOVERNMENT
APOLOGY'S THAT IS A DIFFERENT
PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER TWO AND WILL
WE'RE GETTING THERE IN A MOMENT
RIGHT NOW WE'RE DEALING WITH
TRANSPORTATION RELATED IMPACT
ANALYSIS, PUBLIC HEARING.
SO YOU WILL BE IN THE QUEUE FOR
THE NEXT ONE.
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK THE PUBLIC
HEARING WITH RESPECT TO THE
MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION
IMPACT ANALYSIS?
I DON'T SEE ANY OTHER CALLERS
WITH THEIR HANDS UP FOR THIS
HEARING
.
>> SEE, NO ONE IS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NO TO AN AUDIENCE TO
AMEND THE ZONE IMPACT BEING
PART OF SECTION FIVE TEN TO
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE OF TITLE
FIVE THE CODE OF THE SEA OF ANN
ARBOR REZONING OF ONE POINT
ZERO SIX ACRES ARE FORESE
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT PUDI PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT SEVEN ONE ONE
CHURCH ZONING AND SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS.
IS THERE ANYONE HOUSE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
I'M MARCUS DENHA LIVE AT
THIRTEEN TWENTY ONE FOREST
COURT NOT SO LONG AGO IN AN
INTERVIEW HE GAVE OUR MAYOR
CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR SAID IF YOU
WANT TO WORK ON AFFORDABILITY
THE THING THAT YOU DO IS TRY TO
INCREASE SUPPLY.
SO THAT IS GOING TO BE A
COMMUNITY CONVERSATION WE'RE
GOING TO CONTINUE TO HAVE
OBVIOUSLY IT'S GOING TO MEAN
THAT WE HAVE TO CONTINUE TO
HAVE THIS CONVERSATION WITHOUT
DESTROYING THE CHARACTER OF OUR
NEAR DOWNTOWN NEIGHBORHOODS
BECAUSE IT IS SO IMPORTANT TO
THE LOOK AND FEEL WITHIN ANN
ARBOR FINDING THAT BALANCE IS
GOING TO BE WHAT WE ARE GOING
TO NEED TO WORK ON.
WHAT I LIKE TO KNOW IS HOW DOES
JAMMING A 17 STOREY 1000 BED
LUXURY STUDENT HIGH RISE ONTO
CHURCH STREET ACROSS FROM THE
LOW PROFILE EAST QUAD AND
BEHIND THE LOW RISE TOWERS THE
CHILDREN'S HOUSE AND ALPHA
DELTA PI SORORITY AND
SURROUNDED BY OTHER ARE FORCED
COMPLIANT HOUSING.
HOW INDEED DOES THAT FIND THE
RIGHT BALANCE TO PRESERVE WHAT
CHRISTOPHER RIGHTLY CALLED THE
CHARACTER OF THIS NEAR DOWNTOWN
NEIGHBORHOOD IS EVERYTHING
NORTH OF HILL STREET TO BE OPEN
TO HIGH RISE DEVELOPMENT AND
DAMBA TO WHATEVER THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND ITS CHARACTER
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND ITS
CHARACTER REMAIN?
WHERE AND WHEN DOES THIS STOP?
I URGE YOU AGAIN TO LISTEN TO
THE WORDS OF CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR
AND TO LISTEN TO AND RESPECT
THE JUDGMENTS OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION PLANNING DEPARTMENT
AND THE MANY CITIZENS OF ANN
ARBOR WHO SIGNED A PETITION
SUBMITTED TO YOU ALL OF THEM
RECOMMENDED DENIAL OF THE
APPLICATION FOR A BODY FOR THE
SITE AT 7-ELEVEN CHURCH.
THE SURPRISING AND SURPRISINGLY
LOPSIDED NO VOTE FIVE TO TWO
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
ITS MULTITUDE OF REASONS
CONCERNING THE PROJECT'S SIZE,
ITS CHARACTER, ITS LARGE
CARBON FOOTPRINT, ITS
OPPORTUNISTIC AND MISGUIDED
EXPLOITATION OF THE PROCESS AND
THAT IT PROVIDED NO PUBLIC
BENEFIT SHOULD BE LISTENED TO.
YOU HAVE A PROFESSIONAL
PLANNING STAFF WITH EXPERTIZE
AND EXPERIENCE.
YOU SHOULD LISTEN TO THEM AND
THE RECOMMENDATION TO DENY AND
YOU SHOULD HEAR THE OPPOSITION
OF THE TOWNSLEY CHILDREN'S
HOUSEPARENTS AND STAFF WORRIED
ABOUT THE DANGERS POSED BY THE
PROJECT DURING CONSTRUCTION AND
ITS EVERLASTING IMPACT ON
LIGHTENER OF THE CHILDREN'S
PLAY YARDS ABUTTING THE SITE
AND LISTENED TO TO THE MANY ANN
ARBOR CITIZENS WHO HAVE
EXPRESSED IT EXPRESSED THEIR
DISGUSTED OPPOSITION TO THE
7-ELEVEN CHURCH PYU DENHA
PETITION THEY SIGNED AND THAT
WAS SUBMITTED TO YOU PLEASE
REJECT THIS PROPOSAL.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
LORD.
I
TOO AM OPPOSED TO THE
DEVELOPMENT AT SEVEN-ELEVEN
CHURCH.
THE COUNCIL IS ON THE VERGE
OF APPROVING A BUILDING THAT
OUR PLANNING COMMISSION HAS
REJECTED.
THIS IS A GIGANTIC TWO HUNDRED
AND TWELVE FOOT TALL BUILDING
THAT WILL LOOM OVER OUR CITY
FOR DECADES TO COME BY THE
THAT'S ABOUT FIFTY FEET SHORTER
THAN TOWER PLAZA FOR REFERENCE
AND IT WILL BE 200 NINETY ONE
FEET WIDE RUNNING NORTH TO
SOUTH THIS BUILDING WILL BE ONE
HUNDRED FEET AWAY FROM THE
ABOUT ONE HUNDRED FEET AWAY
FROM THE ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY
SIX FOOT TALL BUILDING YOU
APPROVED AT SEVEN TWENTY ONE
FOR US A BUILDING THAT OUR
PLANNING STAFF REJECTED AND
THAT IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
RIGHT NOW.
THESE BUILDINGS WILL BE HERE
LONG AFTER THE CURRENT PRIVATE
EQUITY MANIA FOR COLLEGE TOWN
LUXURY HOUSING IS OVER LONG
AFTER THE UNIVERSITY GROWTH
SLOWS AND LONG AFTER THIS
COUNCIL IS NO LONGER HERE.
AND ADDING INSULT TO INJURY, WE
UNDERSTAND THAT THE DEVELOPERS
ONLY CONTINUE TO PAY SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS INTO OUR CITY'S
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND BEING
CONSERVATIVE WITH THE NUMBERS
THIS IS LESS THAN FIVE PERCENT
OF THE PROXIMATELY ONE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY ONE MILLION DOLLARS
IN RENTS THIS BUILDING WILL
PRODUCE OVER ITS FIRST TEN
YEARS.
IT'S A VERY, VERY LOW NUMBER.
THE AUSTIN, TEXAS BASED
DEVELOPER ELVIE COLLECTIVE LLC
HAS LUXURY STUDENT BUILDINGS IN
ATLANTA AND AUSTIN.
BOTH OF THEM ARE ABOUT 800 BEDS
.
A COMPLETE QUICK SEARCH WILL
REVEAL NUMEROUS ISSUES WITH
THESE BUILDINGS INCLUDING MOLD
AND CONSTRUCTION DELAYS
RESULTING IN STUDENTS NOT BEING
ALLOWED TO OCCUPY THEIR RENTED
APARTMENTS IN AUSTIN FINALLY,
WE DO NOT KNOW WHO WILL BENEFIT
FINANCIALLY FROM THIS
DEVELOPMENT.
ELVIE COLLECTIVE HAS NOT
REVEALED ITS INVESTORS THE CITY
OUGHT TO CONSIDER IN THE BIGGER
PICTURE WHETHER IT HAS A RIGHT
AND OBLIGATION TO KNOW WHO IS
ACTUALLY INVESTING IN THESE
DEVELOPMENTS REQUESTING A
ZONING CHANGE RATHER THAN AN
ANONYMOUS FUNDING VEHICLE LLC
ETC. WE CAN FIND OUT WHETHER
THEY HAVE THE WHEREWITHAL AND
THE MANAGEMENT EXPERIENCE TO
BUILD AND OPERATE THESE
PROPERTIES OVER THE LONG PERIOD
OF TIME THAT THEY'LL BE IN OUR
CITY.
SO I BELIEVE THIS IS A BAD DEAL
FOR THE CITY, ITS RESIDENTS AND
FOR THE STUDENTS.
THE BENEFICIARIES AT LEAST
THOSE WE KNOW OF ARE THE
PRIVATE EQUITY INVESTORS
FUNDING THIS DEVELOPMENT.
THE DEVELOPERS THEMSELVES AND
OF COURSE THE UNIVERSITY WHICH
CAN FURTHER INCREASE ITS
ENROLLMENT WITHOUT HAVING TO
WORRY ABOUT THE COST OF HOUSING
THESE STUDENTS I WOULD
ENCOURAGE YOU ALL TO STEP BACK,
RECONSIDER THE SIZE OF THIS
PROJECT, UNDERSTAND WHO IS
ACTUALLY INVESTING AND DEMAND
MORE MONEY FOR THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND IF WE CAN'T GET
GOOD ANSWERS THEN THE CITY
SHOULD STOP THIS DEVELOPMENT.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING AND THANK YOU FOR
LISTENING TO US.
>> MY NAME IS ELLEN RAMSBURG
AND I LIVE IN THE THIRD WARD.
AT THE FIRST PUBLIC HEARING I
NEGLECTED TO THANK ALEXIS DE
LEO AND THE PLANNING STAFF FOR
THE EXCELLENT REPORT ON
SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH AND TO
THANK PLANNING COMMISSIONERS
FOR WELL CONSIDERED COMMENTS
AND THE FIVE TO TWO VOTE TO
DENY WHICH FRANKLY I DIDN'T
THINK WAS HIS WAS CLOSE AT ALL
.
UNLIKE COUNCIL MEMBER DISHES
COMMENT IT MUST BE DISCOURAGING
FOR STAFF TO WRITE A WELL
REASONED REPORT ONLY TO HAVE
COUNCIL DISMISSED
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT OFFER A
BALANCE TO SOLUTION TO
ACHIEVING CITY GOALS WHILE
BEING RESPECTFUL OF CONTEXT THE
EXISTING ZONING AND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND I'M QUOTING
ALEXIS REPORT ALONG WITH THE
OVERARCHING GOALS ARE
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
EXPRESSED ACROSS ALL THE
ELEMENTS OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN FOR SENSITIVITY TO CONTEXT
AND RESPECTING AND PRESERVING
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS.
MOST RECOMMENDATIONS SPEAK TO
ACHIEVING BALANCE BETWEEN
IMPORTANT AND A CENTRAL GOALS
SUCH AS EXPANDING HOUSING AND
MORE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
AND REDUCED VEHICLE MILES
TRAVELED WITH CAREFUL
CONSIDERATION FOR THOSE WHO
ALREADY LIVE, WORK AND MAKE THE
CITY WHAT IT IS AND WHAT WE
WANT IT TO BE ADEQUATE
JUSTIFICATION TO INCREASE THE
DENSITY OF THE LAND TEN TIMES
OVER THE CURRENT DESIGNATION
HAS NOT BEEN PROVIDED.
STAFF FINDS INSTEAD THAT THE
MOST APPROPRIATE ZONING
DESIGNATION FOR THE SITE IS D
TO DOWNTOWN INTERFACE SPACE AND
S UNIVERSITY CHARACTER OVERLAKE
.
>> THIS ALTERNATIVE FULFILLS
THE CRITICAL BALANCE IN MEETING
THE OVERARCHING PLAN GOALS
WHILE APPLYING SOUND PLANNING
PRINCIPLES FOR A NATURAL
PROGRESSION BETWEEN DOWNTOWN
AND RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS D
ZONE WOULD MAINTAIN THE DESIRED
CONTEXT FOR THIS FACILITY
OF THE CITY.
>> NEIGHBORS OPPOSE
SEVEN-ELEVEN BECAUSE OF THE
SCALE OF THE DEVELOPMENT AND
THE METHODS USED TO ALLOW THAT
SCALE.
>> COUNCIL HAS NOW SET A
PATTERN OF PERMITTING
PROPERTIES TO SIMPLY GET AROUND
EXISTING ZONINGS.
THE OVERARCHING GOALS COULD BE
ACHIEVED UNDER THESE TWO ZONING
WITHOUT SUCH A NEGATIVE IMPACT
ON THE SURROUNDING
NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> THIS IS NOT BEING A NIMBY.
THIS IS ABOUT ADVOCATING FOR A
BALANCE BETWEEN THE ELEMENTS
THAT MAKE A NEIGHBORHOOD
LIVABLE AND SUSTAINABLE WITH
THE INFLUX OF NEW DEVELOPMENT
SCALE IS IMPORTANT AND PLANNING
PRINCIPLES ARE IMPORTANT.
I WOULD HOPE THAT CITY COUNCIL
WOULD WANT AND ENCOURAGE
CITIZENS TO ADVOCATE BOTH FOR
SUSTAINABLE PRACTICES AND BEST
SOLUTIONS FOR EVERYONE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION OF THIS ITEM
TONIGHT.
MY NAME IS BRAD MOORE WITH JAY
BRADLEY MOORE AND ASSOCIATES
ARCHITECTS.
I'M HERE REPRESENTING THE ELVIE
COLLECTIVE TEAM.
THEY ARE HERE WITH ME TONIGHT.
WE HAVE OWNERSHIP'S
REPRESENTATIVES.
WE HAVE OUR PLANNING
CONSULTANT, OUR CIVIL
ENGINEERING CONSULTANT, OUR
SUSTAINABILITY CONSULTANT, A
GEOTHERMAL CONSULTANT OR DO YOU
HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR US ON
THE DETAILS OF THE PROJECT?
I WOULD LAST LIKE TO POINT OUT
THAT THE STAFF REPORT BEING
CITED WAS FOR A VERSION OF THE
PROJECT THAT HAD A MUCH LESS
DOLLAR AMOUNT IN TERMS OF A
CONTRIBUTION TO THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND.
THE PROPOSAL WAS MODIFIED AT
PIONEER COMMISSION TO INCREASE
THE AFFORDABILITY COMPONENT AND
WE BELIEVE THAT THE
COMMENSURATE EQUATION OF WHAT
IS BEING OFFERED AND WHAT IS
BEING ASKED IS IS MUCH BETTER
NOW.
>> IT SHOULD BE DESERVING
OF THE COUNCIL'S APPROVAL.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
I HEARD THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA SAID THAT YOU GOT TO KEEP
YOUR FOOT ON THE GAS WHEN
YOU'RE DOING THIS AND I THINK
THAT WAS A PERFECT ANALOGY THAT
YOU USE BECAUSE THIS COUNCIL
HAS CERTAINLY KEPT THEIR FOOT
ON THE GAS.
IF YOU APPROVE THIS WILL BE
ALMOST 3000 BEDROOMS OF GAS
FIRED HOUSING.
YOU'VE ALLOWED TO BE BUILT ON
THE BRINK OF THE CITY DOING A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REVIEW AND
WE ALL PAY THE BUDGET.
WE ALL PAY THE MILLAGE FOR
SUPPOSEDLY TO FIGHT CLIMATE
CHANGE HERE FOR CLIMATE ACTION
AND THE EASIEST THING THE
EASIEST WAY FOR US TO FIGHT
CLIMATE ACTION IS TO ONLY
APPROVE THE TYPES OF PROJECTS
THAT FIT WITH OUR COMMUNITY
GOALS, ALL OF OUR COMMUNITY
GOALS AND IT CERTAINLY ISN'T
THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS
OF BEDROOMS OF GAS POWERED
HOUSING THAT ARE GOING TO BE
STANDING IN 2030 AND 2035 AND
JUST A FEW FEW QUICK COMMENTS I
NEVER THOUGHT I'D SAY THIS BUT
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKERMAN WAS
ACCURATE.
I'M NOT TALKING ABOUT YOU
EXCUSE ME.
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKERMAN WAS
CORRECT WHEN HE SAID THESE WILL
EVENTUALLY BE AFFORDABLE AND 40
TO 60 YEARS AND WHEN THEY'RE
DUMP'S IN FORTY YEARS OF COURSE
THEY'LL BE AFFORDABLE AND
THEY'LL STILL BE BLIGHTING OUR
SKYLINE THAT YOU KNOW THAT THE
FACT THAT THEY ALL LOOK ALIKE
THERE'S A REASON FOR THAT MONEY
FOLLOWS MONEY AND MONEY MAKES
MONEY IN THIS TOWN.
MONEY DOESN'T DO GOOD IN THIS
TOWN AND THEY'RE BUILDING THESE
THINGS IN A WAY THAT IS QUICK
AND TURNS THEIR PROFIT QUICKLY.
>> NOW I JUST HAPPEN TO HAVE A
YOUTUBE KICK UP THE PLANNING
COMMISSION WHERE THIS WAS
DISCUSSED IN A CHANNEL AND SO I
GOT TO LOOK AT IT AND NEVER
HAVE IN MY ENTIRE LIFE HAVE I
SEEN BRIBERY SO CASUALLY
DISCUSSED.
I SAW IT GOING BACK AND FORTH.
WHAT ARE WE GOING TO GIVE WHAT
ARE WE GOING TO GET AND A
CRUDER PERSON THAN ME MIGHT SAY
WE REALLY HAVE A HALF ASSED
APPROACH TO HOUSING IN THIS
TOWN.
>> BUT WHAT WE REALLY HAVE IS A
FAILURE TO DO THINGS IN A WAY
THAT IS THOUGHTFUL WHATSOEVER.
WE ONLY DO THINGS HALFWAY.
AN EXAMPLE OF THAT IS THIS LEED
CERTIFICATION.
SO THEY'RE GOING TO TEAR DOWN
THESE TWO BEAUTIFUL HOMES THAT
ARE SITTING THERE RIGHT NOW.
I'D BEEN IN BOTH THOSE HOMES.
I'VE DONE WORK IN THOSE HOMES
AND YOU KNOW, WE GIVE SOME KIND
OF LITTLE TRICKLE TO BRAD MORE
YOU GET MORE WITH MORE IS WHAT
PEOPLE SAY WE GIVE A LITTLE
TRICKLE TO BRAD MOORE FOR DOING
A NOD TO LEADS.
WELL, LEAD IS USING RECLAIMED
MATERIALS OF COURSE TO LEAD.
BUT WHERE DO YOU THINK THESE
MATERIALS COME FROM?
THEY DON'T COME FROM ALLOWING
FROM COMMUNITIES ALLOWING
DEVELOPERS TO CRUSH THINGS AND
PUT THEM IN A DUMPSTER.
>> THEY COME FROM COMMUNITIES
ENCOURAGING DEVELOPERS THROUGH
LAWFUL PROCESSES TO SALVAGE
THINGS.
AND SO ANOTHER HALF ASSED WAY
WE DO THIS IS LET THEM CRUSH
THIS THESE BEAUTIFUL HOUSES AND
STOCKMANN DUMPSTERS AND THERE'S
NO LEADS MATERIALS FOR OTHERS
TO USE.
DO YOU SEE HOW THAT'S GOING
THERE?
YOU GOT TO TAKE A MORE HOLISTIC
APPROACH TO WHAT WE'RE DOING
HERE.
WE KNOW THE JIG IS IN.
WE KNOW THAT MONEY OWNS THIS
TOWN AND DEVELOPERS OWN THIS
TOWN.
SO IT'S REALLY A SHAME.
>> THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
>> HI, MY NAME IS ELEANOR LIN.
I LIVE ON FOREST COURT A BLOCK
AND A HALF AWAY FROM THE CHURCH
STREET PARCELS THAT ARE BEING
CONSIDERED TONIGHT.
THERE WERE MORE HOUSES THAT
WERE TORN DOWN BEFORE IT BECAME
AN EMPTY LOT.
>> THE PROJECT IS TOO BIG FOR
THE NEIGHBORHOOD BETWEEN
WILLARD AND HILL STREETS WHICH
IS ZONED FOR OUR FORESE
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS WITH A 30
FOOT MAXIMUM HEIGHT THAT'S THE
HEIGHT OF THE RESIDENTIAL
COLLEGE THE CHARLES LEE
CHILDREN'S CENTER
, THE ALPHA
DELTA PI SORORITY AND THE MANY
CRAFTSMAN STYLE HOUSES IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THE PLANNING STAFF
AND REJECTING A PROPOSAL WROTE
THE APPLICANT HAS FAILED TO
OFFER SUFFICIENT JUSTIFICATION
AS TO WHY AN AREA THAT IS
CURRENTLY OUTSIDE THE DOWNTOWN
CORE D1 AND ZONED ARE FORESE
SHOULD EXCEED THE DOWNTOWN
CORES ESTABLISH PARAMETERS
MANAGING HEIGHT AND SETBACKS.
>> THE REPORT ALSO STATED THAT
THE PROPOSED FAILS TO MEET THE
STANDARDS OF APPROVAL FOR
BENEFICIAL EFFECTS AS IT MUST
BE AS IT MUST WITH A PUDI
CLASSIFICATION MORE THAN 200
NEARBY RESIDENTS SIGNED A
LETTER URGING YOU TO VOTE NO.
WE RECEIVED NO ACKNOWLEDGMENT
FROM OUR REPRESENT TIBS NOR
FROM THE MAYOR.
I CAN ONLY ASSUME THAT SERVING
CONSTITUENTS IS NOT A HIGH
PRIORITY FOR YOU IN YOUR APRIL
1ST DISCUSSION OF THIS PROJECT
AND MANY OF YOU CITED THE
INCREASE IN STUDENT ENROLLMENT
AS SPURRING YOUR ENTHUSIASM
SOMEONE STATED A GREATLY
INFLATED NUMBER WHICH THOSE
OF US IN THE AUDIENCE WERE
UNABLE TO CONTEST IN THE PAST
TEN YEARS.
>> ACCORDING TO THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN FACTS AND FIGURES
WEBSITE UNDERGRAD ENROLLMENT
HAS INCREASED BY FIVE THOUSAND
STUDENTS DURING THAT TIME FIVE
NEW STUDENT HIGH RISES HAVE
BEEN BUILT IN THE D ONE NEAR
SOUTHY UNIVERSITY AND FOUR MORE
HAVE BEEN BUILT ALONG HURON
STREET.
THERE IS A NEW PAD GOING UP ON
FOREST A NEW STUDENT HIGH RISE
ON WILLIAM STREET AND TWO MORE
D1 BUILDINGS ARE BEING PROPOSED
ALONG CHURCH STREET AND SOUTH
UNIVERSITY.
THEIR TOTAL NUMBER OF RESIDENTS
MORE THAN COMPENSATES FOR THE
INCREASED NUMBER
OF UNDERGRADUATES.
>> WE HAVE ENOUGH STUDENT
APARTMENTS.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT THEIR RENT
IS NOT WHAT MANY STUDENTS CAN
AFFORD.
SOME OF YOU CLAIM THAT RENT
WILL DECREASE WHEN THE SUPPLY
OF APARTMENTS INCREASES.
THAT IS NOT WHAT I HAVE
OBSERVED AS EACH NEW BUILDING
OPENS CHARGING HIGHER RENT THAN
ITS COMPETITORS.
SMALL LANDLORDS ALSO RAISE THE
RENT ON THEIR HOUSES.
>> THIS IS NOT A FREE MARKET.
UNDERGRADUATES ARE A CAPTURED
AUDIENCE MUCH LIKE COAL MINERS
IN A COMPANY TOWN.
YOUR SPIRALING ZEAL FOR HIGH
RISE APARTMENTS IS CREATING
HUGE PROFITS FOR THE
DEVELOPERS.
THANK PRIVATE INVESTMENT.
>> IT IS ALSO RUINING THE
FABRIC OF OUR NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL CARQUEST
ALL THIRTY FIVE BY FIVE CHARTER
PLACE.
I HOPE YOU'LL SUPPORT THIS
REZONING TONIGHT I THINK I
AGREE WITH A COMMENTER THAT A
PROLIFERATION OF PD IS A SIGN
THAT OUR PLANNING IS NOT
CATCHING UP WITH THE REALITIES
ON THE GROUND AND YOU KNOW
WHILE WE ALL HOPE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS
WOULD GO FASTER, THIS IS THE
TOOLS WE'RE LEFT WITH IN THE
MEANTIME, I THINK THIS
PARTICULAR PETITION FITS FITS
THE BILL GIVEN GIVEN THE
VACANCY RATE THAT'S SO THAT'S
HURTING SO MANY PEOPLE TODAY IN
THE CITY.
I ALSO JUST WANT TO REFLECT ON
HOW MUCH THE WORD CHARACTER IS
BEING USED TONIGHT.
IT'S BEEN USED IN VARIOUS WAYS
OVER THE PAST HUNDRED YEARS FOR
VARIOUS REASONS.
WE HAVE HISTORIC DISTRICTS IN
TOWN THAT ARE DESIGNED TO
PROTECT THE CHARACTER
OF CERTAIN ARCHITECTURAL FORMS
AND BLOCKS AND TO IMPOSE AN
EXPECTATION OF CONTINUED
CHARACTER REMAINING THE WAY IT
IS.
THE REST OF THE CITY IS DOING A
DISSERVICE TO PEOPLE WHO WHO
NEED TO LEAVE NEED TO LIVE
HERE.
SO I URGE YOU TO SUPPORT THIS
POSITION TONIGHT.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU
AFFECTIONATELY ABOUT
ZONING OR COMING TALK ABOUT THE
PROJECT MORE GENERALLY IT'S
ONLY ABOUT THE IT'S ABOUT THE
ZONING.
OK, CAN I COME BACK IN THE NEXT
.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I WAS TALKING ABOUT ZONING
PERSON.
MY NAME'S EMILY.
I'M ANN ARBOR RESIDENT AND A
TEACHER AT TIDALLY CHILDREN'S
HOUSE ADJACENT TO THE SEVEN 11
STREET PROJECT.
>> ALTHOUGH THE COUNCIL HAS
ALREADY GRANTED INITIAL
APPROVAL FOR THIS PROJECT, I
REALLY URGE YOU TO RECONSIDER
SOME OF THE SPECIFIC DETAILS
OF THE PLAN IN REGARDS TO
ZONING.
IT'S BEEN REALLY DIFFICULT FOR
ME TO UNDERSTAND WHY THIS
PROJECT WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO
MOVE FORWARD TWO OR D ONE
ZONING.
IT SEEMS LIKE THAT DESIGNATION
WOULD MATCH THE ZONING AND THE
SOUTH YOU DISTRICT AND BE IN
LINE WITH THE RECOMMENDATIONS
FOR THE CITIES FROM THE CITY'S
PLANNING COUNCIL.
AS THEY POINTED OUT, THIS
BUILDING DOES NOT PROVIDE
UNIQUE BENEFITS, COULDN'T BE
ACHIEVED THROUGH OTHER
CLASSIFICATIONS.
UNIVERSITY TOWERS HAS BEEN
REFERENCED AS A HEIGHT MATCH
FOR THIS BUILDING BUT A FEW
BLOCKS BETWEEN SEVEN-ELEVEN
CHURCH AND 536 ARE FORCED TO
MAKE A REALLY BIG DIFFERENCE.
AND I I GUESS I DON'T REALLY
UNDERSTAND WHY IF 17 STOREYS
WAS A FINANCIAL AND ESTHETIC
GOAL FOR THIS BUILDING, WHY
THEY DIDN'T SEEK A PARCEL THAT
WAS ALREADY IN THE D ONE AREA I
SEE LIKE VACANT LOTS ALONGSIDE
WITH YOU THAT NEED TO BE BUILT
ON AND OTHER AREAS WHERE IT
SEEMS LIKE THAT WOULD MAKE MORE
SENSE.
SO I CERTAINLY THINK THAT A
DEVELOPMENT ON THE SITE MAKES
SENSE IN THE CONTEXT OF THE
GROWING UNIVERSITY STUDENT BODY
AND AN EXPANDING DOWNTOWN AREA
SO THAT WE CAN MEET THE HOUSING
NEEDS IN ANN ARBOR.
BUT IT JUST SEEMS LIKE THE
HEIGHT OF THIS STRUCTURE IS
DISPROPORTIONATE TO THE
NEIGHBORING BUILDINGS AND
BLOCKS.
AS I WAS TRYING TO READ THROUGH
THE PRETTY REGULATIONS IT SEEMS
LIKE THAT REQUIREMENT IS TWO
HUNDRED AND SEVENTEEN FEET TALL
AND THIS ONE SEEMS LIKE IT WILL
BE OVER THREE HUNDRED AND THE
STEPPING DOWN THAT THE
DEVELOPERS INDICATED THAT THEY
WERE GOING TO INCORPORATE INTO
THE DESIGN FROM SEVENTEEN TO
TWELVE STORIES IT DOESN'T
REALLY CHANGE THE VERTICAL
FOOTPRINT OF THE BUILDING.
SO THE AFTERNOON SUNLIGHT WILL
BE REALLY IT'LL BE TOTALLY
BLOCKED FROM THE CHILDREN'S
CENTER AND ALSO FROM OTHER
AREAS AROUND IT.
SO I GUESS MY QUESTION IS IF
IT'S POSSIBLE TO NEGOTIATE A
MORE MODERATE HEIGHT PERHAPS TO
MATCH ARBOR BLUE OR THE NEW
STRUCTURE THAT'S BEING BUILT
AND SO FORTH, I THINK THAT THAT
WOULD JUST COULD MAKE MORE
SENSE TO ME.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING PUBLIC HEARING
NUMBER TWO IN CONNECTION WITH
THE ZONING OF SEVEN ELEVEN
CHURCH MAYOR?
>> WE HAVE A FEW PEOPLE
CALLER
WITH THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING AN
EIGHT SEVEN THREE.
>> DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
YOU CAN PRESS STAR SIX ON YOUR
PHONE.
GO AHEAD.
>> HI, MY NAME IS DANIEL.
>> I'M A RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR
WITH TWO CHILDREN AT KALGOORLIE
CHILDREN'S CENTER THAT WAS JUST
REFERENCED AND I'M MAKING THIS
COMMENT TODAY.
I JUST LEARNED OF THIS
DEVELOPMENT FAIRLY RECENTLY AND
TALK TO NUMEROUS MEMBERS OF THE
STAFF AND OTHER PARENTS AT
TOWNSLEY SINCE SINCE HEARING
OF IT.
I'VE READ UP ON THE REASONS
THAT MANY ARE SUPPORTING THIS
INCLUDING THE INFUSION OF CASH
INTO AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND THE
ARGUMENTS ABOUT THE HOUSING
SHORTAGE.
AND I THINK MANY PEOPLE
INCLUDING MYSELF UNDERSTAND
THOSE THE IMPORTANCE OF THOSE
ISSUES.
BUT THOSE ARE NOT THE ONLY
IMPORTANT ISSUES HERE.
AND I THINK WHAT I WOULD LIKE
TO HEAR TONIGHT REGARDING THE
ZONING OF THIS IS CONSIDERATION
OF THE IMPACT OF THIS
CONSTRUCTION IN THIS REZONING
ON ONE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY PLUS
CHILDREN UNDER THE AGE OF SIX
THAT CALL TOWNSLEY HOME EVERY
DAY IN THIS COUNCIL AND THE
DEVELOPMENT FIRM ASSOCIATED
WITH THIS GUARANTEE THAT
HOUSLEY AND THOSE KIDS THAT THE
FACILITY WILL REMAIN OPEN
DURING CONSTRUCTION AND YOU SAY
TONIGHT WITH ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT CONFIDENCE THAT A
DEVELOPMENT OF THIS SCALE SIX
FEET FROM THE EDGE OF A
SEVENTEEN STOREY DEVELOPMENT
WHERE CHILDREN ALL DAY FROM
EIGHT THIRTY TO FIVE P.M. THEY
ARE OUTSIDE ALL DAY WILL REMAIN
SAFE AS CRANES MOVE OVER THEIR
AS MATERIALS ARE MOVED TO
CONSTRUCT A BUILDING OF THIS
SCALE.
WELL THE CONSTRUCTION DUST AND
NOISE HAVE AN IMPACT ON THE
HEALTH AND SAFETY OF THE KIDS
IN THAT BUILDING INCLUDING MY
OWN ESPECIALLY THE BABIES THAT
TAKE NAPS A FEW FEET AWAY FROM
WHERE ALL THIS CONSTRUCTION IS
GOING TO GO ON.
AND I THINK IN MY DISCUSSIONS
WITH ALL SORTS OF OTHER PARENTS
IF IF THOSE GUARANTEES CANNOT
BE MADE THEN THAT ZONING
APPLICATION SHOULD BE DENIED
BECAUSE IT CAN'T SUPPORT A
FACILITY OF THAT SCALE
PARTICULARLY CONSIDERING WHAT
ELSE IS IN THAT NEIGHBORHOOD.
AND I WILL ALSO JUST NOTE THAT,
YOU KNOW, I WISH I'D LEARNED
OF THIS DEVELOPMENT SOONER BUT
IN EVERY CONVERSATION I'VE HAD
IT'S BEEN DISTRESSING TO HEAR
THAT IT SEEMS THE PUBLIC PUBLIC
OPINION SEEMS TO BE THAT IT
DOESN'T MATTER WHAT WHAT
ANYBODY SAYS ABOUT THIS, ABOUT
THIS ISSUE THAT IT'S GOING TO
MOVE FORWARD NO MATTER THE
OBJECTIONS OF ANYBODY WITHIN
THAT NEIGHBORHOOD OR ANYBODY
LIKE MYSELF WITH KIDS IN THERE.
BUT I WOULD REALLY LIKE TO HEAR
AND IF THERE IS A PLAN FOR HOW
EFFORTLESSLY REMAINING OPEN IN
THAT PLAYGROUND REMAINING OPEN
AND THOSE KIDS REMAINING SAFE,
I WOULD LOVE TO KNOW WHAT THOSE
DETAILS ARE BECAUSE I HAVEN'T
SEEN IT COVERED ANYWHERE BY THE
DEVELOPER OR APART FROM ANY ANY
PART OF COUNCIL ABOUT WHAT THE
IMPACT OF A BUILDING OF THAT
SCALE IS GOING TO BE ON ONE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY KIDS, LET
ALONE THE FACT THAT WE ALREADY
HAVE THE CONSTRUCTION ACROSS
THE STREET WHICH IS OBVIOUSLY A
LITTLE BIT FURTHER AWAY BUT
THAT'S MADE THAT AREA ALMOST
COMPLETELY IMPOSSIBLE TO GET TO
GET TO FOR PARENTS AND IT'S
JUST SOMETHING I FEEL LIKE THIS
COUNCIL REALLY NEEDS TO THINK
ABOUT IN THE IMPACT IT'S GOING
TO HAVE PARTICULARLY ON THE
HELP OF THOSE KIDS.
>> AND THANK YOU FOR TAKING THE
TIME TO CONSIDER THAT VERY
IMPORTANT.
>> THANK YOU, ERIC.
I DO HAVE A COMMENT.
>> GO AHEAD.
>> HI.
MY NAME IS MY NAME IS ERIC
BOSTITCH AND I'M CALLING FROM
THE THIRD WARD.
I'M HERE TO VOICE MY SUPPORT
FOR THE 11 CHURCH PROJECT AND
THE REZONING.
>> AS MANY OF YOU ALREADY KNOW,
OUR CURRENT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
IS FIFTEEN YEARS OLD DATING
BACK TO 2009.
IT'S WOEFULLY OUT OF DATE AND
COMES NOWHERE CLOSE TO HELPING
US ADDRESS OUR HOUSING CRISIS
AND OUR CLIMATE CRISIS.
OF COURSE OUR PLANNING
DEPARTMENT NEEDS TO BASE
DECISIONS ON SOMETHING AND
CURRENTLY THEY'RE STUCK WITH
THIS OUTDATED DOCUMENT.
>> THE UNIVERSITY IS INCREASING
ITS ENROLLMENT AND ITS
EMPLOYMENT AND OUR VACANCY RATE
IS NEAR IS NEAR ZERO PERCENT.
WE NEED MORE DENSE HOUSING NEAR
THE UNIVERSITY FOR STUDENTS AND
TO REDUCE PRESSURE ON OTHER
SEGMENTS OF OUR HOUSING STOCK.
OUR LACKING HOUSING SUPPLY
NEGATIVELY IMPACTS MANY
RESIDENTS AND WE AS A CITY NEED
TO CREATE OUR OWN SOLUTIONS AND
PROUSTIAN ENVIRONMENT FOR THE
PRIVATE SECTOR TO CREATE
ADDITIONAL SOLUTIONS.
THE PROJECT PROVIDES NUMEROUS
COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND IS
EXACTLY WHERE IT SHOULD BE
WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE
OF CAMPUS.
I URGE YOUR SUPPORT FOR THE
REZONING THE SITE PLAN AND THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
THANK THANK YOU
ADAM
JUSZKIEWICZ, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> HI THIS IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ
CALLING FROM THE FOURTH WARD.
I'VE NOT CHANGED MY STANCE ON
SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH SINCE THE
LAST TIME I SPOKE IN SUPPORT
OF IT AT PLANNING COMMISSION AS
WELL AS BEFORE YOUR FIRST
READING.
WE ARE IN A HOUSING CRISIS WITH
HIGH DEMAND FOR HOUSING AND A
VERY LOW VACANCY RATE.
THIS DEVELOPMENT WILL ADD A
SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF UNITS TO
OUR LOCAL HOUSING SUPPLY.
I
THAT MUST BE MITIGATED THE
EXTRA HOUSING ITSELF IS A
BENEFIT.
WE NEED TENS OF THOUSANDS
OF ADDITIONAL UNITS OF HOUSING
TO BE BUILT IN ANN ARBOR.
THE UNIVERSITY IS NOT PROVIDING
ENOUGH HOUSING FOR THEIR
STUDENTS PARTICULARLY AS
ENROLLMENT INCREASES.
HOWEVER MUCH WE MAY WANT THEM
TO PROVIDE MORE HOUSING WE
CAN'T FORCE THEM TO DO SO.
THEY ARE BUILDING SOME BUT IT
ISN'T ENOUGH.
THE PRIVATE MARKET WILL NEED TO
FILL THE GAP.
THIS WON'T HAPPEN UNLESS WE
MAKE IT POSSIBLE FOR US AND
OTHER SIMILAR DEVELOPMENTS TO
BE BUILT.
WE ARE IN A CLIMATE CRISIS AND
THIS LOCATION IS EASILY
WALKABLE TO CAMPUS TO
RESTAURANTS SUCH AS PIZZA HOUSE
AND LAND CITY NOODLES AND TO
STUDENT HANGOUTS SUCH AS GOOD
TIME CHARLY'S AND RIK'S.
A HANDFUL OF RESIDENTS HAVE
SIGNED A PETITION IN OPPOSITION
TO THIS BUILDING.
HOWEVER, WE DO NOT RULE BY
PETITION.
WE ELECT REPRESENTATIVES TO
LISTEN TO THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY
TO DO WHAT IS BEST FOR THE CITY
AS A WHOLE.
NOT A FEW AFFLUENT RESIDENTS
WHO LIVE ON MILLION DOLLAR
LUXURY SINGLE FAMILY HOMES IN
AN EXTREMELY DESIRABLE THEIR
DOWNTOWN NEIGHBORHOOD.
BESIDES, I REALLY DON'T THINK
THE CHARACTER OF REXBURG VALLEY
OR THE REST OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD
WILL BE NEGATIVELY IMPACTED BY
A STUDENT HIGH RISE IN A
STUDENT NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT'S ACROSS THE STREET FROM A
DORM AND WITHIN A COUPLE BLOCKS
OF SEVERAL SIMILAR STUDENT HIGH
RISES.
THIS IS THE PERFECT LOCATION
FOR THIS KIND OF PROJECT AND I
WOULD ARGUE SO IS EVERYTHING
NORTH OF ?
FINALLY I WOULD LIKE TO AGAIN
MENTION THE MORE THAN SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS THAT THIS
DEVELOPMENT WOULD BE PAYING
INTO OUR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FUND.
IT'S REALLY NOTHING TO SNEEZE
AT AND WOULD GO SO FAR TO HELP
THE ANAMBRA HOUSING COMMISSION
PAY FOR THE MANY PROJECTS THEY
ARE WORKING ON.
THIS PROJECT COULD NOT BE BUILT
UNDER ANOTHER ZONING CATEGORY
SO APUT IT IS I BELIEVE THE
COMMUNITY BENEFITS STANDARDS
ARE MET AND DO NOT HOLD WITH
THE IDEA THAT THIS WOULD HAVE
NEGATIVE IMPACTS.
IT IS WITHIN YOUR PREROGATIVE
AS A POLICY SETTING BODY TO
APPROVE THIS TONIGHT AND I URGE
YOU TO DO SO.
PLEASE VOTE YES ON SEVEN-ELEVEN
CHURCH ZONING SITE PLAN AND
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT TONIGHT.
THANK YOU
FOR WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER AN EIGHT SEVEN NINE I.
>> YES WE CAN OUR IS CARUSO
ABOUT FIVE FIVE SIX GLENDALE
FURCAL AND ARBOR 40 YEAR
RESIDENT OF THAT HARBOR
FOUNDATION AN EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE MEMBER OF OUR
FOUNDING MEMBER OF THE HOUSE
WATERSHED GROUP AND FORMER
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBER FOR
THE SIERRA CLUB BATTLEGROUP
ARISE PARIS AS WELL OVER TWICE
THE DENSITY OF NEW YORK CITY
WITHOUT THE HUGE
CARBON EMITTING HIGH RISE
BUILDING OF LOW RISE PARIS THE
FRENCH CITY CAPITOL HAS FIFTY
SIX THOUSAND PEOPLE PER SQUARE
MILE WHILE NEW YORK CITY MOST
SETTLED US HOFFLER HAS ONLY
TWENTY SEVEN THOUSAND PEOPLE
PER SQUARE MILE LOW RISE
BUILDINGS WILL HOUSE WELL OVER
TWICE THE NUMBER OF RESIDENTS
AND HIGH RISES COST LESS AND
DON'T PRODUCE ENORMOUS AMOUNTS
OF CARBON CHANGING EMISSIONS
DON'T ISOLATE RESIDENTS DON'T
HAVE HUGE HEAT ISLANDS AND ARE
NOT INCREDIBLY EFFICIENT WELL
MADE LOW RISE BUILDINGS CAN BE
MADE OUT OF MICHIGAN LUMBER AND
SEQUESTER CARBON FOR CENTURIES
NOT IN THAT MORE CLIMATE CHANGE
AND CARBON IS MUCH MORE
EFFICIENT ENERGY EFFICIENT.
GREAT.
WE HAVE A FEW LOW RISE ALMOST
ALL WOOD BUILDINGS IN ANN ARBOR
NOW RESIDENTS AND STUDENTS CAN
LIVE IN LOW RISE WOOD BUILDINGS
WITH MUCH BETTER QUALITY
OF LIFE AND AS WELL AS THE 20
STOREY CONCRETE STEEL BUILDING
HAVE AN ENORMOUS
CARBON FOOTPRINT IS ABOUT
TWENTY MILLION POUNDS OF CARBON
INTO THE ATMOSPHERE JUST FOR
THE CONCRETE AND STEEL NOT
INCLUDING ALL THE ACTUAL
CONSTRUCTION RELATED
CARBON EMISSIONS WHICH ARE ALSO
CONSIDERABLE EMITS AS MUCH
CARBON AS ALL OF INDIA AS A
WHOLE COUNTRY.
ANN ARBOR IS PUSHING FOR TALLER
CONCRETE BUILDINGS AS A MANTRA
TO DEVELOPERS AND REAL ESTATE
INTERESTS AND POLITICAL
CAMPAIGNS, CHEMICAL CAN AND
INDUSTRY IS RESPONSIBLE FOR
EIGHT PERCENT OF GLOBAL
CARBON EMISSIONS, TRIPLE THE
EMISSIONS OF THE AVIATION
INDUSTRY.
NOT ONLY DOES THE CARBON CARBON
DIOXIDE FROM CONCRETE CHEMICAL
REACTION SPILL INTO THE
ATMOSPHERE BUT AND THEN
PRODUCERS ARE ALSO USING HUGE
AMOUNTS OF CARBON OF COAL AND
NATURAL GAS GONADAL AND ALSO
EMIT CARBON NOT MUCH OF A VERY
POWERFUL FEELING FOR
CARBON REDUCTION PLANS TO
SUPPORT THESE TALL BUILDINGS
EVEN THOUGH CITY PLANNING STAFF
AND PLANNING COMMISSION BOTH
RECOMMENDED HOLDING THIS DOWN.
MORE INFORMATION BEFORE THE BIG
WE DO NOT WE DO NOT SUPPORT THE
SPEEDIEST BUILDING OR THE MORE
HUGE AMOUNTS OF CARBON
EMISSIONS FROM HIGH RISE
BUILDINGS.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
.
MARKS KERBAL, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
GO AHEAD.
MY NAME IS MIKE SCRIBBLE
CALLING IN SUPPORT TO SUPPORT
THE REZONING OF SEVERAL OF THE
CHURCH TO BEAUTY IN ORDER TO
BUILD DESPERATELY NEEDED
HOUSING FOR ZONING PLAN IS
DISTRIBUTED ACROSS MULTIPLE
DOCUMENTS OVER 15 YEARS OLD AND
THAT TIME THE UNIVERSITY HAS
ADDED THOUSANDS STUDENTS ALONG
WITH THE STAFF AND THE FACULTY
NEED TO SUPPORT THEM WITHOUT
PROVIDING NEARLY ENOUGH HOUSING
FOR ALL THOSE ADDITIONAL
RESIDENTS AT THE UNIVERSITY
CHOSEN TO BUILD SUFFICIENT
HOUSING FOR ALL THESE NEW
RESIDENTS, THE CITY WOULD HAVE
LOST OUT ON VALUABLE TAXABLE
REAL ESTATE INSTEAD WE NOW HAVE
AN OPPORTUNITY TO BUILD
HOUSING, INCREASE OUR TAX
REVENUES AND ADD TO OUR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND AND
SLOW THE RAPID UNSUSTAINABLE
INCREASE IN HOUSING COSTS ALL
BUILDING DIRECTLY NEXT TO THE
UNIVERSITY.
THIS DESPERATELY NEEDED HOUSING
IS PRECISELY THE CHARACTER
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD FULL
OF STUDENTS, ACADEMIC BUILDINGS
AND MANY OTHER LARGE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENTS.
I LOOK FORWARD TO THE CITY
ENACTING NEW COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
IN THE NEXT COUPLE OF YEARS TO
ENABLE MORE EFFICIENT
CONSTRUCTION HOUSING LIKE
7-ELEVEN CHURCH STREET PLEASE
VOTE YES TO REZONE THE SITE A
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU ADAM GOODMAN DO
YOU HAVE A COMMENT BY ADAM
GOODMAN AGAIN?
STILL ON THE FIFTH WARD.
SO MY THOUGHTS ON THIS PROJECT
ARE VERY SIMILAR TO THE ONES
THAT I STATED EARLIER ABOUT A
DIFFERENT PROJECT.
>> THIS ONE IN PARTICULAR AGAIN
TALKING ABOUT OUR HOUSING
CRISIS.
THIS WOULD ADD ONE THOUSAND
THIRTY ONE BEDS OF STUDENT
HOUSING A BLOCK FROM CENTRAL
CAMPUS.
IT WOULD CONTRIBUTE SEVEN POINT
ONE MILLION DOLLARS TO OUR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND.
AND AGAIN THIS WOULD BE THIS
ONE PROJECT WOULD BASICALLY
DOUBLE THE AMOUNT OF REVENUE
WE'D GET FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
IN IN AN ENTIRE HERE.
AND YOU KNOW, IF YOU COMBINE
EVERYTHING THAT'S ON THE AGENDA
TONIGHT AND EVERYTHING GETS
APPROVED THAT WILL TRIPLE DIGIT
PRETTY CLOSE TO TRIPLE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING REVENUE FOR
THE CITY FOR THIS YEAR.
THAT'S REALLY IMPORTANT.
THERE WAS AN ARTICLE IN THE
OBSERVER LAST LAST SUMMER WHERE
JENNIFER ALL TALKED ABOUT
ESCALATING CONSTRUCTION COSTS
FOR ALL OF THE AMBITIOUS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING BUILDINGS
THAT THE CITY IS TRYING TO
CONSTRUCT ON CITY OWNED
PROPERTY.
AND SHE DESCRIBED THE SITUATION
AS A NIGHTMARE THEN THE MILEAGE
THAT WE PASSED WAS WE WE KNEW
FROM THE START THAT WAS NOT
GOING TO BE ENOUGH BUT THE
SITUATION WAS GETTING GETTING
WORSE AND WE NEED EVERY BIT
OF MONEY THAT WE CAN GET FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN ORDER TO
ACHIEVE THE AMBITIOUS VISION
THE CITY IS SET FOR FOR ITSELF.
>> IT'S BUILDING WOULD ALSO
HAVE SIGNIFICANT SUSTAINABILITY
FEATURES AND USE IT WOULD USE
ELECTRIC ONLY APPLIANCES AND
SYSTEMS TO THE GREATEST EXTENT
POSSIBLE EXCEPT THAT DTI HAS
APPARENTLY INDICATED THEY DON'T
HAVE SUFFICIENT CAPACITY TO
MAKE THIS A FULLY ELECTRIC
BUILDING.
SO THERE IS A LIMITATION THERE.
UNFORTUNATELY AND IT WOULD
ACHIEVE ALL OF THIS WITH
RELATIVELY LIMITED AND
UNBUNDLED CAR PARKING WHICH
WOULD CONTRIBUTE TO OUR VMT
REDUCTION GOALS FOR CLIMATE
ACTION AND TRAFFIC SAFETY.
THIS IS ACROSS THE STREET FROM
A DOORMAN, A PARKING STRUCTURE
AND A AGAIN I SAY A BLOCK FROM
CENTRAL CAMPUS.
IF THIS ISN'T THE RIGHT
LOCATION FOR A BUILDING LIKE
THIS, I DON'T KNOW WHAT IS MORE
UNITS, UNITS AND BEDS WE CAN
GET IN A LOCATION LIKE THIS
BETTER.
IN FACT, THE DEVELOPER ALREADY
SCALED DOWN THE DEVELOPMENT
PRETTY SIGNIFICANTLY ON ONE END
IN RESPONSE TO NEGATIVE
FEEDBACK AND I SORT OF WISH
THEY HADN'T I WISH THIS WERE
BIGGER AND TALLER THAN THAN
WHAT'S PROPOSED FOR YOU
TONIGHT.
>> I'M YOU KNOW, A PREVIOUS
COMMENTER SUGGESTED WE THINK
HOLISTICALLY SO LET'S DO THAT.
THIS ISN'T JUST ABOUT STUDENT
HOUSING.
I DON'T EXPECT I EXPECT
EVERYONE WHO LIVES IN THIS
BUILDING WILL PROBABLY BE
STUDENTS BUT IT'LL TAKE THE
PRESSURE OFF OF HOUSING IN
OTHER PARTS OF THE CITY OR
OTHER PARTS OF THE COUNTY
FRANKLY WHERE PEOPLE WHO ARE
NOT STUDENTS MIGHT WANT TO LIVE
.
AND YOU KNOW, WE TALKED TO A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT INCREASING
STUDENT ENROLLMENT NUMBERS BUT
THE UNIVERSITY HAS ADDED EVEN A
LARGER NUMBER OF STAFF FULL
TIME EQUIVALENT STAFF MEMBERS
TIME THAT IT'S WE REALLY HAVE A
PROBLEM HERE AND THIS WOULD BE
A GREAT STEP.
SO I HOPE YOU'LL APPROVE IT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ALEX LOWE, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> GO AHEAD, ALEX CALLING IT
FROM SOUTH SOUTHEAST ANOTHER
RELATIVE A FEW MINUTES AGO THAT
I'VE GOT TO WISH COUNCIL MEMBER
A HAPPY BIRTHDAY DREAM MY
PUBLIC COMMENTS.
SO I HOPE IT'S NOT TOO
INAPPROPRIATE FOR ME TO SAY
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TRAVIS THAT ON
THE TOPIC OF THIS PUBLIC
HEARING, I DON'T LIKE THE FACT
THAT THIS IS A PITY THIS ENTIRE
BLOCK AS WELL AS THE ENTIRE
BLOCK BETWEEN FOREST AND
WASHTENAW RIGHT NEXT TO IT
SHOULD FRANKLY BE ZONED ONE.
>> THE ONLY REASON THAT I CAN
SEE THAT IT'S NOT HAZARAT
ZONING CODE HAS SIMPLY NOT KEPT
UP WITH THE REALITY OF THE
CITY.
MOREOVER, DAEWON SHOULD ALLOW
BUILDINGS LIKE THIS RIGHT FROM
MY OWN RESEARCH INSTEAD OF AS
HISTORY.
IT APPEARS THAT THE PRIMARY
REASON ON FOR THE RESTRICTIONS
ON D1 DEVELOPMENTS THAT YOU
PROVE IT PREVENTS DEVELOPMENT
LIKE THIS DESPITE THE FACT THAT
THIS WILL PROVIDE AT LEAST TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTY HOMES FOR
PEOPLE COME DOWN TO THE
BACKLASH OF A HALF A CENTURY
AGO BECAUSE SINGLE SINGLE UNIT
DEVELOPMENTS WERE BEING
REPLACED WITH MULTIPLE UNITS
DEVELOPMENTS THAT BACKLASH
COMBINED WITH DECADES WORTH
OF LAND LORDS HAVING HAD A
STRANGLEHOLD ON THE ZONING
BOARD AIRPORT IN THE CITY HAVE
BEEN TWO MAJOR CAUSES OF OUR
HOUSING CRISIS HERE AND THEN I
HOPE THAT THE CITY COUNCIL WILL
TAKE THIS VERY MINIMAL STEP
TONIGHT AND I HOPE TO SEE MUCH
BIGGER, MORE SWEEPING CHANGES
FROM COUNCIL TO REDUCED THE
ARCULUS AMOUNT OF BUREAUCRACY
THE CITY CURRENTLY PUTS IN
ANYONE WHO'S TRYING TO CREATE
HOUSING IN THE CITY RATHER THAN
THE CURRENT STATE OF AFFAIRS
WHERE ANY NEW CONSTRUCTION
OF HOUSING INCLUDES FIGHTING
TOOTH AND NAIL AGAINST OUR
LEGAL FRAMEWORK.
>> BUT WE SEEM TO ACTIVELY
ENCOURAGING THE ENCOURAGE THE
HOARDING OF WHAT LITTLE HOUSING
STOCK WE DO HAVE THROUGH TAX
STRUCTURES, SUBSIDIES AND AND
THROUGH ENORMOUS REQUIREMENTS
THAT WE PUT IN NEW DEVELOPMENTS
ONE NOT REQUIRING EXISTING
DEVELOPMENTS TO MATCH TO MATCH
THOSE SAME ENVIRONMENTAL
REQUIREMENTS ENERGY STANDARDS
ETC. BUT TONIGHT I'M NOT ASKING
YOU TO DO ALL OF THAT TONIGHT I
AM ASKING YOU TO DO THE BARE
MINIMUM.
>> PLEASE VOTE YES ON THIS.
THANK YOU.
LUIS VASQUEZ, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> GO AHEAD.
YES.
THANK YOU.
GREETINGS MR. MAYOR IN ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL LUIS VASQUEZ
I LIVE IN UPPER LOWER TOWN THE
FIRST WARD FORTY YEAR RESIDENT
OF ANN ARBOR AND PLEASED TO ADD
MY VOICE TO THE SUPPORT FOR
THIS REZONING AND PROJECT.
I'M REALLY EXCITED TO SEE THIS
ALL HAPPENING WHILE I AM LIVING
HERE AND HOPE TO SEE MORE
MOVEMENT FORWARD AND FOR ALL
THE REASONS THAT HAVE BEEN
EXPRESSED BY MY FELLOW
SUPPORTERS OF THIS REZONING
PROJECT, I DO NOT HAVE TO
REITERATE ANY OF THAT.
BUT I THINK SUFFICE TO SAY WE
NEED THIS PROJECT, WE NEED MORE
PROJECTS LIKE IT AND WE NEED TO
EXPEDITE THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
AND ACTIVITIES AROUND THAT.
I'M GLAD THAT IS GOING ON RIGHT
NOW AND I HOPE WE FINISH SOON.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
GOOD NIGHT.
THANK YOU.
MICHELLE HUGHES, DO YOU
OVERCOMER I I UP I ALSO AM IN
FAVOR OF THIS BUILDING.
I THINK THAT WE ALL ARE HERE
BECAUSE WE LOVE ANN ARBOR AND I
THINK SOME OF US ARE CONFUSED
ABOUT WHY WE LOVE ANN ARBOR.
WE LOVE ANN ARBOR BECAUSE
OF THE PEOPLE THAT ARE IN ANN
ARBOR AND IF WE BUILD MORE
BUILDINGS THERE WILL BE MORE
PEOPLE IN ANN ARBOR.
SO WE WILL LOVE ANN ARBOR EVEN
MORE AND I THINK THAT THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE SCARED ABOUT
THAT JUST DON'T UNDERSTAND WHAT
THEY LOVE ABOUT ANN ARBOR.
WHY DID THEY LIVE HERE?
I DON'T KNOW.
MAYBE MAYBE SOME OF THESE
PEOPLE DO JUST LIKE LOOKING AT
EACH OTHER A SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES AND THEIR LAWNS AND
DRIVING THEIR CARS.
BUT I I THINK MORE PEOPLE WILL
BE ANN ARBOR BECAUSE OF ITS
PEOPLE.
IF YOU ASK PEOPLE WHY THEY LIVE
HERE, THEY'LL TALK ABOUT
FRIENDS AND LOVED ONES.
THEY'LL TALK ABOUT JOB
OPPORTUNITIES.
WE'LL TALK ABOUT EDUCATION.
IT'S NOT A LOT OF PEOPLE THAT I
KNOW OF WHO ARE TRYING THAT
I'VE HEARD OF TRYING TO MOVE TO
ANN ARBOR JUST TO LOOK AT THE
ARCHITECTURE OF OLD BUILDINGS
AND SO I THINK THAT WE SHOULD
SERVE THE POPULATION OF THE
PEOPLE WHO WANT AND NEED ANN
ARBOR TO GROW.
AND LIKE EVERYONE SAID, THIS IS
COMPLETELY APPROPRIATE PLACE TO
BUILD HOUSING LIKE THIS AND WE
SHOULD LET THIS HAPPEN AND LET
OTHER THINGS LIKE IT HAPPEN AND
YEAH, THANKS THANK YOU
.
GROSSMITH DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT
THOUGH?
>> YES I DO.
SO YES I AM IN FAVOR OF THIS
PROJECT.
UM THIS GIVES US A GREAT TO OUR
TAX BASE THAT WE COULD
OTHERWISE BE LOSING TO THE
UNIVERSITY.
IT'S EXACTLY IN KEEPING WITH
THE CHARACTER OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THAT UPSETS
THE OWNERS OF MILLION DOLLAR
LUXURY HOMES BUT UM AS I PLAY
IT LIKE WITHIN A COUPLE OF CITY
DEVELOPERS WANT TO MAKE MONEY
AND I DON'T SEE THEM GIVING UP
THEIR HOUSES FOR THE GOOD
OF THE HEART.
GOOD AT THAT.
I REALLY GO TO THEIR HEART UM,
WE ARE IN A HOUSING CRISIS.
THIS IS A GREAT THING HERE AND
OTHER PEOPLE HAVE COMMENTED
THAT UM THIS SHOULD BE THE ONE
UM AND LIKE REALLY THAT SHOULD
GO TO AND PROBABLY BEYOND OR
THE PEOPLE THAT DO OWN THE
HOUSES THEY'RE LIKE THIS WILL
MAKE YOUR PROPERTY PRICES GO
UP, YOUR TAXES GO DOWN.
I REALLY DON'T UNDERSTAND.
>> THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR TIME
.
>> THANK YOU
>> GREG MATTHEWS, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT REGARDING COUNSEL GREG
BOARD FOR LONG TIME LISTENER
FIRST TIME CALLER I AM CALLING
IN TO SUPPORT THIS REZONING.
I WON'T TRY TO SUMMARIZE ALL MY
THOUGHTS ON THIS BECAUSE I
THINK A LOT OF THE OTHER
SUPPORTIVE COMMENTERS HAVE MADE
GREAT POINTS.
BUT JUST A COUPLE OF THOUGHTS.
ONE ESTHETICS I KNOW A LOT
OF COMMENTERS DON'T LIKE TALL
BUILDINGS IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
.
I PERSONALLY DON'T SHARE THAT
DISTASTE FOR TALL BUILDINGS.
I LIKE TALL BUILDINGS LIKE
WALKING THROUGH NEIGHBORHOODS
WITH TALL BUILDINGS.
BUT WHATEVER I HAPPEN TO LIKE
OR DISLIKE ABOUT THE SIZE
OF BUILDINGS, I DON'T THINK MY
SUBJECTIVE ESTHETIC PREFERENCES
SHOULD REALLY HAVE ANY BEARING
ON WHAT COUNCIL CHOOSES TO DO
TONIGHT.
>> I'M ALSO THINKING ABOUT THIS
RIGHT NOW.
THIS IS A LUXURY PRICED EMPTY
LOT.
THERE IS NOTHING THERE IF IT
DOESN'T BECOME LUXURY PRICED
HOUSING IT'S GOING TO BECOME A
LUXURY PRICED SOMETHING OR
OTHER JUST BECAUSE THE DEMAND
ON THIS LAND IS SO HIGH.
AND THEN FINALLY I HEARD SOME
QUESTIONS ABOUT
WHO BENEFITS
FROM DEVELOPMENTS LIKE THIS AND
I THINK A LOT OF THOSE LISTS
OF WHO BENEFITS MISSED VERY
CONSPICUOUS GROUP OF PEOPLE WHO
WOULD BENEFIT.
THAT IS THE ONE THOUSAND PLUS
PEOPLE WHO COULD LIVE HERE THAT
THERE WILL BE MORE CHOICES FOR
STUDENTS IN PLACES TO LIVE.
SO THE PEOPLE THAT LIVED IN
THIS BUILDING WILL BE ABLE TO
WALK BY BUS, ET CETERA, ET
CETERA AS EVERYBODY HAS SAID,
THERE'S A LOT OF FOLKS HAVE
ALREADY SAID BUT ALSO EVERYONE
ELSE WHO'S LOOKING FOR SOME
KIND OF RENTAL HOUSING IN ANN
HARBOR IS GOING TO BENEFIT
BECAUSE WE'VE JUST REMOVED A
THOUSAND PLUS PEOPLE FROM THE
MARKET THAT ARE ALL CLAMORING
FOR A PLACE TO LIVE.
AND WITH THE VACANCY RATE LESS
THAN THREE PERCENT IN ANN ARBOR
,TENANTS ARE AT THE MERCY
OF LANDLORDS RIGHT NOW IT IS
THERE ARE REAL HUMAN
CONSEQUENCES TO THIS HOUSING
CRISIS SO I THINK A VACANT LOT
ON PRIME REAL ESTATE IS
ACTUALLY A BIG MORAL PROBLEM.
IT'S CAUSING SUFFERING.
IT'S CAUSING ANXIETY OUT THERE
AND PLEASE APPROVE THE
REZONING.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
CALLER WITH THE
PHONE NUMBER AND AGAIN THREE,
FOUR OR FIVE.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT OR FIXED
ON MUTE YOUR PHONE GO AHEAD.
>> HI THIS IS KITTY.
CAN I LIVE IN ROCHESTER ARED I
WANT TO GO ON RECORD AS
OBJECTING TO THIS PROJECT BUT
FIRST I WANT TO SAY THAT BY
CHARACTER WE MEAN THE HEIGHT
OF THE BUILDINGS NOT THE DOG
WHISTLE MEANING THAT KIRCHHOFF
FALL ALLUDED TO OK MUCH OF WHAT
I WAS GOING TO SAY IS ALREADY
BEEN EXPRESSED WELL BY PREVIOUS
SPEAKERS SO I WON'T REPEAT IT.
I DON'T FEEL CONFIDENT THAT MY
COUNCIL REPRESENTATIVES WILL
VOTE ON MY BEHALF.
>> THEY USUALLY DON'T BUT I
WANT TO BE ON RECORD AS
OPPOSING THE PROJECT SO I
DECIDED TO CALL IN ANY WAY
COUNCIL DOESN'T LISTEN TO CITY
PLANNERS NOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
>> BOTH PARTIES VOTED TO DENY A
PROJECT SO I DON'T HAVE MUCH
HOPE COUNCIL WILL LISTEN TO ME
BUT I WANT TO GO ON RECORD AS
OPPOSING THE SEVEN ELEVEN
CHURCH PROJECT.
>> IT IS OUT OF CHARACTER FOR
THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND NO KIRCH.
>> I'M NOT TALKING ABOUT RACISM
AS YOU ALLUDED TO WITH YOUR DOG
WHISTLE COMMENT BY CHARACTER.
I'M TALKING ABOUT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THE WAY THAT THE
HEIGHT OF THE BUILDINGS, THE
WAY THAT PEOPLE CAN FEEL
COMFORTABLE WALKING AROUND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD WITHOUT BEING IN
THE SHADOW OF TALL TOWERS
FILLED WITH LUXURY APARTMENTS
THAT WILL NOT HELP ALLEVIATE
OUR AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROBLEM
AT ALL AT ALL.
AND I CONCUR WITH THE SPEAKER
WHO TALKED ABOUT TEARING DOWN
BEAUTIFUL OLD PEOPLE, DISMISS
THEM BY SAYING OH THEY'RE RUN
DOWN.
>> THEY'RE HORRIBLE.
NO, NO THEY'RE NOT.
THEY JUST WANT TO SAY THAT IT'S
AND IF THEY ALLOW THEM TO BE
RUN DOWN, IT'S DEMOLITION BY
NEGLECT WHICH IS NOT ALLOWED BY
OUR CITY IF YOU LOOK IT UP,
THERE'S AN ORDINANCE AGAINST
DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT BUT OUR
CITY LOVES TO TEAR DOWN
PERFECTLY GOOD BUILDINGS, MANY
OF WHICH ARE FILLED WITH
AFFORDABLE UNITS BUT OH NO,
THEY WANT TO TEAR THEM DOWN TO
PUT UP LUXURY TALL UGLY
BUILDINGS AND THOSE BEAUTIFUL
OLD HOMES TO THE LANDFILL.
YOU'RE AFRAID TO YOU KNOW,
SUSTAINABILITY THING IS ALL
TALK I'LL TALK ACTION SPEAK
LOUDER THAN WORDS YOU CAN
PROBABLY TELL I'M SHAKING
BECAUSE I'M SO ANGRY BECAUSE I
KNOW THIS WILL BE UNANIMOUS,
FULLY APPROVED LIKE EVERYTHING
ELSE ALWAYS IS.
>> BUT PLEASE IF SOMEBODY HAS A
BACKBONE TO STAND UP AND VOTE
AGAINST YOUR CRONIES ON
COUNCIL, PLEASE VOTE NO.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, SARAH ELLEN
STRONGMAN DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> HI, THANK YOU SO MUCH
COUNSEL.
MY NAME IS ELLEN STRONGMAN.
I'M CALLING FROM THE FOURTH
WARD.
I AM BOTH IN ANN ARBOR RESIDENT
AND FACULTY AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
I'VE HEARD A LOT OF THOUGHTS
ABOUT THIS PARTICULAR
DEVELOPMENT, ABOUT A NUMBER
OF OTHER DEVELOPMENTS AND I
WANTED TO SPEAK ABOUT MY OWN
EXPERIENCES AS AN INSTRUCTOR
WHO INTERACTS WITH STUDENTS
REGULARLY EVERY SEMESTER I HAVE
TAUGHT AT MICHIGAN I HAVE HAD
MULTIPLE STUDENTS WHO HAVE HAD
HOUSING ISSUES NOT JUST GETTING
HOUSING BUT GETTING LIVABLE
HOUSING.
I JUST HEARD A COMMENTER TALK
ABOUT HOW LOVELY A LOT OF THESE
RENTAL HOMES ARE EVERY SEMESTER
I HAVE STUDENTS WHO HAVE DEALT
WITH THINGS LIKE MOLD FLOODING
STUDENTS WHOSE LANDLORDS HAVE
FAILED TO REPAIR BROKEN
FURNACES IN THE WINTER,
STUDENTS WHO DON'T HAVE
ADEQUATE LOCKS ON THEIR DOORS,
ANY NUMBER OF THINGS AND A LOT
OF STUDENTS ARE STILL PAYING A
LOT OF MONEY JUST TO LIVE NEAR
CAMPUS.
OTHER STUDENTS OF MINE HAVE
BEEN FORCED OUT OF THE CITY
BECAUSE OF PRICES AND ARE
STRUGGLING TO COMMUTE INTO
TOWN.
IT COSTS THEM TIME PLUS THE
MONEY AND IT MAKES ATTENDING
THE UNIVERSITY MORE DIFFICULT
PROVIDING ADDITIONAL BEDS,
HUNDREDS OF ADDITIONAL BEDS
THIS CLOSE TO CAMPUS IS A WIN
WIN.
I'M NOT SAYING THESE ARE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING BEDS.
THEY'RE NOT THE LUXURY.
IT'S A MISNOMER.
IT'S A BRAND NEW BUILDING.
EVERY SINGLE BUILDING IS A
LUXURY BUILDING IF IT'S NEW
ACTUALLY SIGN ON A TWEET
RECENTLY THAT SOMEONE POSTED
FROM I THINK MINNEAPOLIS SAID
AFFORDABLE LUXURY HOUSING.
WE NEED MORE HOUSING.
STUDENTS NEED MORE HOUSING.
SOMEONE ALREADY MENTIONED THIS
IF PEOPLE CAN MOVE OUT OF OTHER
HOUSING LIKE MANY OF THE HOMES
IN BERN'S PARK OR OTHER
NEIGHBORHOODS SOUTH AND WEST,
SOUTH AND EAST OF THIS
PARTICULAR PLOT, THEN OTHER
STUDENTS WILL BE ABLE TO LIVE
IN THEM.
I DON'T THINK THAT TWO HUNDRED
PEOPLE WHO ALREADY HAVE HOMES
THAT THEY OWN SHOULD BE ABLE TO
SAY THAT OTHER PEOPLE DON'T GET
TO LIVE CLOSE TO WHERE THEY
WORK AND STUDY.
>> AND I REALLY HOPE THAT
COUNCIL TAKES INTO
CONSIDERATION BOTH THE HUGE
NUMBER OF RESIDENTS OF STUDENT
RESIDENTS WILL BE ABLE TO LIVE
IN THIS BUILDING AND THE
INCREDIBLY LARGE CONTRIBUTION
TO OUR AFFORDABLE HOUSING WHICH
I KNOW THAT JENNIFER HALL AND
THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING COURT
OVER HOUSING WILL MAKE GREAT.
>> YOU SAID THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
BRANDON HIMSELF.
>> DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
>> GO AHEAD.
OH YES.
YOU CAN RIGHT IS VERY MUCH UP
IN LARRY IN THE FOURTH WARD
I'VE CALLED IN SUPPORT IS AT
THIS POINT AND OTHERS HAVE
COVERED MY POINT SO I'M GOING
TO TRY TO KEEP THIS SHORT.
WE CAN BURY OUR HEADS IN THE
SAND ABOUT SUPPLY AND DEMAND OR
WE CAN APPROVE THIS AND GET
SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS FOR THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND WHILE
WE HAVE MORE STUDENTS ON A FEW
LOTS A BLOCK AWAY FROM CAMPUS
INSTEAD OF OCCUPYING OVER ONE
HUNDRED AND SIXTY SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES IN BURNS PARK NEARBY
NEIGHBORS OBJECTING TO THIS
LIVE IN ONE POINT FIVE MILLION
DOLLAR LUXURY SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES THAT THEY COULD SELL FOR
A HANDSOME PROFIT IF THEY
REALLY CAN'T EMOTIONALLY HANDLE
A BUILDING GOING IN A FEW
BLOCKS AWAY DOWN BY REXBURG
VALLEY.
THIS IS NOT GOING TO NEGATIVELY
IMPACT ANYBODY AND NOBODY WILL
THINK TWICE ABOUT THIS BUILDING
IN FIVE YEARS THERE ARE TENS
OF THOUSANDS ARE SHORT TENS
OF THOUSANDS OF HOUSING UNITS.
PLEASE DON'T FALL FOR THE FEAR
UNCERTAINTY NO DOUBT THAT
PEOPLE HAVE EXPRESSED TODAY.
PLEASE APPROVE THIS REZONING.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU CALLER THE PHONE
NUMBER AND AGAIN FIVE THREE
FOUR.
>> DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
>> HELLO AGAIN STALBERG.
I HAVE DEVELOPMENT EXPERIENCE
PREVIOUSLY DEVELOPED
SUBDIVISION'S EVERY ZONINGS IN
MULTIPLE COMMUNITIES INCLUDING
ONES THAT INVOLVE A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REVISION IN
ORDER TO MAKE ZONING COMPATIBLE
WITH THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO
HAVE DIRECT EXPERIENCE
PROFESSIONALLY WITH BEFORE YOU
TODAY SOMETHING THAT DOESN'T
MEET OUR CURRENT COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN.
YOU'VE BEEN TOLD THAT IT'S IN
YOUR REPORTS.
CAN YOU RECONCILE WITH WHAT A
LOT OF PEOPLE THINK SHOULD BE
THEIR HOW IS THAT DONE?
WELL, THERE IS A SPECIFIC
PROCESS TO DO THAT IS CALLED A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REVISION.
WE HAVE BEGUN THAT PROCESS IN
THAT PROCESS RIGHT NOW THAT IS
THE PROCESS WHERE THE COMMUNITY
EXPRESSES WHAT WE COLLECTIVELY
WANT FOR OUR LAND USE PLANS
WITH LOCATION.
MAYBE IT IS A PLACE WHERE WE
SHOULD HAVE THIS TYPE
OF HOUSING.
LET'S FIND OUT HOW DO WE FIND
OUT THE PROCESS HAS BEGUN.
WE COMPLETE THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN REVISION PRIOR TO
ENTERTAIN A BUILDING SUCH AS
THIS THAT DOESN'T FIT RIGHT
WAY.
MAYBE WE COME UP WITH THE
COMMUNITY DECISIONS THAT IT
WOULD FIT HERE BUT THIS TYPE
OF ZONING FOR THESE BLOCKS IN
THIS AREA WOULD BE APPROPRIATE
AT THAT POINT WE CHANGE OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND THEN WE
THIS APPLICATION WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE UNDER THE
CIRCUMSTANCES TO DO SO BEFORE
THAT PLAN I'M SORRY BEFORE THE
PLAN OF VISION IS COMPLETE
PRESUPPOSES THE OUTCOME OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REVISION
ESSENTIALLY YOU THE CITY
COUNCIL HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY
NOW TO UPHOLD
THE PROCESS THE
INTENT OF THE PROCESS OR TO
PURSUE THE OUTCOME OF THE
PROCESS ESSENTIALLY TELLING ALL
THE CITIZENS THAT ARE TRYING TO
PARTAKE IN THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN REVISION PROCESS WE WANT
OUR COMMUNITY TO EMBRACE AND
PARTICIPATE IN WHAT WOULD BE
TELLING THEM DON'T BOTHER.
WE'VE ALREADY DECIDED FOR YOU
WHAT WE WANT HERE REGARDLESS
OF THE PROCESS THAT'S ALREADY
UNDER WAY DESIGNED TO BE
TELLING US WHAT SHOULD BE HERE
.
FOLLOW THE PROCESS.
THE MICHIGAN ZONING ENABLING
ALLOWS US TO HAVE A ZONING
CODE IF IT IS BASED ON THE PLAN
FOR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
WE CANNOT DIVORCE THEM LIKE
WE'VE BEEN DOING AND WE ARE
BUILDING PROPERTIES
PARTICULARLY WHEN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REVISION
PROCESS IS UNDERWAY.
I HAD THIS HAPPEN TO ME WHEN I
WAS DEVELOPING A PROPERTY I
APPLIED FOR REZONING.
I HAD TO WAIT FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO REVISE
THEN I GOT MY APPROVAL BUT THE
PROCESS THAT WAS APPROPRIATE
UNDER THE PROCESS HONOR YOUR
CITIZENS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER
CALLERS ON LINE WITH THEIR
HANDS UP AT THIS TIME
SEEING NO
ON THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NO.
THREE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
SEVEN-ELEVEN PUDI SITE PLAN AND
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
AGAIN SO AS A
TEACHER AT TOWNSLEY CHILDREN'S
HOUSE I JUST WANT TO REITERATE
WHAT THE PARENT CARLA EARLIER
EMPHASIZED.
I THINK AS THIS PROJECT MOVES
FORWARD EITHER AS PROPOSED OR
WITH AN AMENDED DESIGN, I FEEL
IT'S REALLY INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT FOR DEVELOPERS AND
THE COUNCIL AND OTHER CITY
OFFICIALS TO GIVE SPECIAL
CONSIDERATION TO THIS PROJECT'S
PROXIMITY TO THE SCHOOL.
CHILDREN DO PLAY OUTSIDE UP TO
THE PROPERTY LINE FROM EIGHT
THIRTY A.M. UNTIL FIVE P.M.
EVERY WEEKDAY OF THE YEAR.
WE'RE NOT LIKE A PUBLIC SCHOOL
THAT OPERATES JUST FROM THE
FALL THROUGH THE SPRING.
WE DON'T HAVE TWO WEEKS OFF AT
WINTER WHERE EVERY WE'RE OPEN
EVERY DAY AND IT IS ACTUALLY
AGAINST STATE LICENSING RULES
FOR US TO OPERATE WITHOUT
ACCESS TO A PROPER OUTDOOR PLAY
SPACE.
SO WE CANNOT SIMPLY KEEP
CHILDREN INSIDE WHILE THIS
CONSTRUCTION IS GOING ON.
IT'S ALREADY BEING DISCUSSED
THAT IF THIS DOES HAPPEN
THERE'S A POTENTIAL THAT WE
WOULD HAVE TO MOVE BECAUSE
OF THE IMPACT TO THE SCHOOL
WHICH WAS BUILT IN 2010 TO BE A
SCHOOL FOR FIFTY OR MORE YEARS
FOR THE TO SERVE THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN FACULTY AND STAFF
MEMBERS.
SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT IF THAT THERE ARE
REGULATIONS IN PLACE THAT THE
DEVELOPERS HAVE TO FOLLOW WHEN
THEY'RE PLANNING TO BUILD
WITHIN A FEW FEET OF A SCHOOL
PROPERTY, IT'S KIND OF TO ME IT
SEEMS LIKE MAYBE AN UNUSUAL
SITUATION BECAUSE SCHOOLS ARE
USUALLY IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS
ARE NOT SUBJECT TO TYPICALLY TO
HAVE HIGH RISE DEVELOPMENTS
RIGHT NEXT TO THEM.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S
REGULATIONS FOR THE DEVELOPERS
THAT WILL GUIDE THEM AS THEY
WORK AROUND CHILDREN WHO ARE
ZERO TO FIVE YEARS OLD.
WILL IT BE SAFE FOR CHILDREN TO
BE SO CLOSE TO AN ACTIVE
CONSTRUCTION SITE AS WE SEE IN
THE PROPERTY THAT'S BEING BUILT
ACROSS THE FOREST FROM US
WORKERS ARE MOVING STEEL BEAMS
,PORTABLE TOILETS, CEMENT
PIPES WITH THE CRANE OVER THE
ROAD CLOSE TO THE OTHER
PROPERTIES IT'S IMAGINABLE THAT
THAT MIGHT HAPPEN TO US AND
THAT'S A LITTLE BIT SCARY TO
THINK ABOUT.
CAN THEY USE THE JACKHAMMERS
WITHIN THE FEW FEET OF THE
CHILDREN WHO WILL NOT BE HAVE
SAFETY GEAR ON?
THERE'S ENOUGH WATER SHUTOFFS
OR POWER OUTAGES OCCUR THAT
AFFECT OUR PROPERTY.
WE ARE REQUIRED AGAIN BY STATE
REGULATIONS TO CLOSE TO
CHILDREN.
SO WILL THAT BE REIMBURSED BY
DEVELOPERS LIKE THOSE ARE THE
KINDS OF THINGS THAT ARE
DIFFERENT ABOUT THIS KIND
OF PROJECT AND THE ADJACENT
NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES THAT ARE
NEXT DOOR.
THERE'S BEEN AN INCIDENT WHERE
A POWER LINE FELL INTO OUR PLAY
SPACE ALREADY AND SO DTT AND
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT HAD TO BE
CALLED IN ORDER TO REMEDY THAT
.
SO I JUST I THINK THAT THE
SITUATION WARRANTS ADDITIONAL
SCRUTINY WHEN THIS PROJECT GOES
FORWARD.
IT SOUNDS LIKE IT PROBABLY WILL
BUT I JUST THINK THAT AS IT
MOVES FORWARD WE JUST NEED TO
MAKE SURE THAT THE SMALL PEOPLE
WE TAKE CARE OF OUR ARE REALLY
SUPPORTED BY THE COMMUNITY
AROUND THEM.
>> SO THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
CHRIS JOHNSON WITH ELVIE
COLLECTIVE.
I WANTED TO FIRST THIS IS THE
FIRST TIME I'VE HEARD FROM A
CHILDREN'S TLC CHILDREN'S
CENTER PARENT.
VERY GLAD THAT THEY WERE ABLE
TO MAKE THAT CALL AND CALL IN.
WE WENT THROUGH A NUMBER
OF DIFFERENT DECISIONS AND
CONVERSATIONS NARROWED DOWN OUR
GENERAL CONTRACTOR SELECTION TO
SIX THE FINAL CANDIDATE THAT WE
FELT MOST COMFORTABLE WITH IS
TURNER CONSTRUCTION.
TURNER IS RESPONSIBLE FOR A
LARGE AMOUNT OF CONSTRUCTION ON
THE UNIVERSITY CAMPUS.
THEY HAVE A VERY COMPREHENSIVE
SAFETY PLAN WHICH WAS SHARED
WITH THE UNIVERSITY AND
OPPORTUNITY TO SCRUTINIZE THAT
WAS GIVEN.
THEY HAD NOTHING MORE THAT THEY
NEEDED FROM US AT THE TIME SO I
WANTED TO SHARE THAT THERE IS
NO CRAINE FLYING OVER THE
TOWNSLEY CENTER.
THERE'S NO PAYLOAD OVER THE
HOUSLEY CENTER.
ALL OF THAT IS A NON ISSUE.
THANK YOU
ELLEN RAMSBURG AGAIN
I'M JUST LISTENING TO THE FIRST
SPEAKER WHO TALKED ABOUT 732
PACKARD AND THE FACT THAT THERE
WERE NO STUDIES OR THAT HE DID
NOT SEE ANY STUDIES ABOUT
SHADOWING OR WIND OR ANY
OF THOSE EFFECTS THAT A
BUILDING OF THIS HEIGHT WOULD
WOULD COULD POSSIBLY CAUSE.
AND I DON'T THINK THAT I SAW
ANYTHING IN THE STAFF REPORTS
ABOUT STUDIES THAT THIS SITE
PLANNED FOR SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH
STREET DID AND I HOPE THAT CITY
COUNCIL HAS CHECKED TO SEE THAT
ANY AS FAR AS A PARENT AS THE
CHILDREN'S HOUSE SPEAKERS HAVE
NOTED, I HOPE THAT THEY HAVE
COVERED ANYTHING THAT MIGHT
HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT NOT JUST
CRAYONS BUT WIND AND SHADOW AND
OTHER THINGS THAT A BUILDING
OF THIS SIZE WOULD CAUSE.
THANK YOU
.
NO, THAT IS NOT OF THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS ONLY ABOUT THE
CHURCH STREET DEVELOPMENT.
>> OH NO THERE'S NO NO PUBLIC
HEARING ON THE PACARD
DEVELOPMENT
AND OUR A RESIDENT
THERE'S BEEN LOTS OF TALK ABOUT
THE SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS GOING
TOWARDS THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AND SEVEN MILLION DEFINITELY
SOUNDS LIKE A LOT OF MONEY.
AND I WAS JUST WONDERING WHEN
YOU ALL GET AROUND TO TALKING
ABOUT IT IF YOU COULD PUT THAT
IN CONTEXT OF HOW MANY UNITS
THAT MIGHT ACTUALLY BE.
I SAW AN ARTICLE ABOUT THE CITY
JUST GETTING 60 PLUS MILLION
DOLLARS FOR ANOTHER AFFORDABLE
HOUSING UNIT AND WHEN DID THE
NAPKIN MATH THAT COST ABOUT
THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
PER UNIT.
SO IT SEEMS LIKE SEVEN MILLION
DOLLARS MAYBE GETS YOU THIRTY
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS AND I
THINK THAT'S JUST PUTS IT IN
BETTER CONTEXT OF EXACTLY HOW
MANY AFFORDABLE HOW MANY
HOUSING UNITS ARE ACTUALLY
BEING CREATED WITH THE SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS BECAUSE
SOMETHING MILLION SOUNDS BIG
AND GREAT.
THIRTY AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS
AGAIN IS GREAT BUT IT JUST I
THINK HELPS US PUT IT A LITTLE
MORE IN CONTEXT.
SO IF PEOPLE HAVE THAT
INFORMATION AND CAN SHARE THAT
OUT AS YOU ALL DISCUSS THE THIS
PROJECT, I THINK THAT WOULD BE
BENEFICIAL.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
EVERYONE ELSE IN HOUSE I'D LIKE
TO SPEAK TO THIS PUBLIC HEARING
ABOUT THE SITE PLAN AND THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
.
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING AREA?
WE HAVE A COUPLE OF CALLERS ON
LINE.
ALEX LOWED.
>> WE HAVE A COMMENT.
>> GO AHEAD, ALEX STILL CALLING
IN FROM SOUTH SOUTHEAST DENVER
.
>> WHEN I FIRST READ ABOUT THIS
PROJECT I WAS DISAPPOINTED AT
THE I BELIEVE NINETEEN FOR SITE
AS I THOUGHT THEN IT WAS THE
WRONG HEIGHT AND TO BE HONEST I
STILL THINK THAT BUT THE SITE
HAS CHANGED AND I MUST SAY I'M
EVEN MORE DISAPPOINTED IN IT
THAN I WAS BEFORE.
>> SEVENTEEN FLOORS, 17 FLOORS
.
PEOPLE ARE CALLING THIS A HIGH
RISE.
THIS IS THIS THE MID RISE AT
BEST FIFTY FIFTY THERE WOULD BE
A HIGH RISE THIS THIS A SMALL
TOWNSHIP.
>> I DO WANT TO THANK ONE
OF THE OTHER SPEAKERS FOR
POINTING OUT THAT THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CONTRIBUTIONS FOR THIS WILL
WILL BE ABLE TO BUILD ROUGHLY
30 UNITS FOR FOR SOME 30 THERE
AN ANALOGY THERE THAT WOULD
ALLOW FIFTEEN ACRES OF OUR ONE
ISLAND WORTH OF UNITS THAT THAT
THAT IS AN ENTIRE GOLF COURSES
WORTH OF OF UNITS IF IF THE
LAND WAS WHERE THERE ARE 1A NOW
THAT'S NOT THAT'S NOT WHAT
WE'RE GOING TO BE DOING WITH
THAT
THAT MONEY I HOPE.
>> BUT JUST AS SOME AS SOME
MORE CONTEXT FOR HOW MUCH
HOUSING THAT PROVIDES ANYWAY
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I DO REALLY WISH THIS WERE
TALLER.
>> THANK YOU HOLLERITH THE
PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN ONE NINE
FOUR.
>> DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT OR ONE
NINE FOUR GO AHEAD
.
OR THE PHONE NUMBER AGAIN ONE
NINE FOUR PRESS STAR SIX ON ME
YOURSELF GO AHEAD
CALLER ID THE
PHONE NUMBER AGAIN ONE NINE FOR
YOUR UNMUTED
GREG MATTHEWS, DO
YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
>> HELLO AGAIN.
I JUST WANTED TO BE VERY BRIEF
THINKING ABOUT THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING CONTRIBUTIONS.
YES, IT IS SUPER EXPENSIVE TO
BUILD NEW HOUSING.
UM, MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
WHEN THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING
COMMISSION GETS THOSE FUNDS
THEY'RE ABLE TO BASICALLY
MULTIPLY THE FUNDING THAT THEY
GET THROUGH ADDITIONAL GRANTS
FROM STATE AND FEDERAL SOURCES.
SO HOPEFULLY THIS WILL ACTUALLY
PROVIDE EVEN MORE HOUSING THAN
IT LOOKS LIKE ON THE SURFACE.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU
HERE I DON'T HAVE ANY
OTHER CALLERS ON THE LINE WITH
THEIR HANDS
.
SEE, NO, IT'S JUST PUBLIC USE
CLOSED PUBLIC CARRY NUMBER FOR
AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION
263 OF CHAPTER TWENTY TWENTY
NINE WATER.
IT'S ENTITLED TO THE CODE OF
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
I'LL ALWAYS COME DOWN HERE AND
TALK ABOUT OUR WATER RATES.
YOU'RE ONE OF THE MOST
OFFENSIVE THINGS THAT WAS EVER
SAID WHEN I WAS ON COUNCIL WAS
BY A COUNCIL MEMBER AND SHE
SAID THAT IF SOMEBODY'S NOT
DOWN HERE COMPLAINING ABOUT IT
MEANS THEY APPROVE OF WHAT
YOU'RE DOING AND I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT TO NOT YOU DON'T WANT
TO MIX APATHY WITH APPROVAL,
YOU KNOW, SO ONE THING BEFORE
WE GET STARTED THAT ALSO COUNTS
ABOUT WATER SEWER MCCORMICK
GREAT LAKES WATER AUTHORITY CEO
SUBMITTED HER LETTER
OF RESIGNATION WEEKS AFTER
THOUSANDS OF HOMES WERE SPOILED
BY SEWAGE BACKUPS DURING A
TREMENDOUS STORM.
>> NOW SHE'S OUR TEMPORARY
PUBLIC SERVICES AREA
ADMINISTRATOR.
>> I UNDERSTAND SHE KNOWS A LOT
ABOUT WATER.
THE FOLKS IN MY CIRCLE IN THE
WATER CIRCLES KNOW A LOT ABOUT
WATER AND I KNOW THAT IT
DOESN'T COST TWICE AS MUCH TO
PROVIDE A GALLON OF WATER IN
2024 AS IT DID IN 2014 WHEN
CHRIS TAYLOR FIRST BECAME MAYOR
AND APPROVAL OF THIS WATER RATE
INCREASE TONIGHT WILL COMPLETE
THE TEN YEAR DOUBLING OF OUR
RATES SO THIS MOVES FORWARD.
WE WILL HAVE HAD DOUBLED OUR
WATER RATES FROM APPROXIMATELY
2014 UNTIL THE END OF THE
BILLING CYCLE THAT THIS WILL
TAKE EFFECT IN AND FOLKS ASK ME
ALL THE TIME HOW COME WE KEEP
JACKING OUR WATER RATES UP?
WHERE'S IT ALL GOING?
IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE A FEE FOR
SERVICE.
IT'S NOT SUPPOSED TO BE A TAX
AND IF IT DOESN'T COST TWICE AS
MUCH TO PRODUCE AND PROVIDE
THAT GALLON OF WATER, WHERE'S
THE MONEY GOING?
>> WELL, I THINK WE HAD OUR
ANSWER EARLIER IN THE FIRST FEW
PUBLIC HEARINGS WHEN WE SAY
WE'RE GOING TO BUILD A 17 TO 20
STORY BUILDING IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT ISN'T
DESIGNED FOR THAT.
AND SO WHEN THEY TEAR UP THE
STREETS AND THEY REPAIR YOUR
STREETS AND YOU SAY HOW COME
THEY'RE TAKING SO LONG AND HOW
COME IT'S SO EXPENSIVE WOODS
BECAUSE THE WATER CUSTOMERS ARE
PAYING FOR THE INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT'S GOING TO SUPPORT THESE
GIANT BUILDINGS.
AND SO WHEN WE PUT A 12 OR 18
INCH MAIN IN TO REPLACE SIX OR
EIGHT INCH THAT'S BEING PAID BY
US AND THAT'S BEING PAID BY
THESE GIANT RATES AND I SEE
PEOPLE SHAKING THEIR HEADS BUT
I'D LOVE FOR YOU TO SHOW THE
MAP JUST LIKE YOU NEVER SHOW
THE MAP ON WHY IT IS WE'RE
GOING TO HOW WE'RE GOING TO
SUPPORT 80000 NEW RESIDENTS BY
2035 WHICH IS PART OF OUR
CLIMATE ACTION PLAN AND
EVERYONE WHO COMES HERE BRINGS
THEIR WATER CONSUMPTION AND
THEIR WATER, THEIR WASTEWATER.
EVERYONE WHO COMES HERE BRINGS
AND I GUESS THE ONLY GOOD THING
THEIR WATER, THEIR WASTEWATER.
YOU MIGHT SAY ABOUT JACKING OUR
AND I GUESS THE ONLY GOOD THING
RATES UP IS IT APPEARS TO BE
YOU MIGHT SAY ABOUT JACKING OUR
NECESSARY TO KEEP IT.
RATES UP IS IT APPEARS TO BE
IF YOU WERE TO PRIORITIZE YOUR
NECESSARY TO KEEP IT.
BUDGET PROPERLY, YOU WOULDN'T
IF YOU WERE TO PRIORITIZE YOUR
CONSTANTLY BE REACHING INTO THE
BUDGET PROPERLY, YOU WOULDN'T
WALLETS OF THE OF THE RESIDENTS
CONSTANTLY BE REACHING INTO THE
OF OUR CITY.
WALLETS OF THE OF THE RESIDENTS
>> THANK YOU.
OF OUR CITY.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
>> THANK YOU.
HOUSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
HOUSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
PUBLIC HEARING?
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
>> I DON'T SEE ANY CALLERS FOR
PUBLIC HEARING?
THIS HEARING
SEE NO.
IN THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
FIVE AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
SECTION TWO SIX NINE OF CHAPTER
TWENTY NINE WATER RATES
OF TITLE TWO PART OF ME
STORMWATER RATES A TITLE TWO
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY BANABA.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN THE HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
AGAIN I'LL COME
UP AND SPEAK IN OPPOSITION.
EVERYBODY WHO HAS TO PAY THESE
BILLS THE STORM WATER RATES ARE
CALCULATED WAY AHEAD.
AN INTERESTING THING HAPPENED
TO ME WITH MY HOUSE.
IF YOU TAKE A LOOK AT HOW
YOU'RE IN IMPERVIOUS SURFACES
CALCULATED THEY TAKE A
SATELLITE PICTURE AND THEY KIND
OF RUN AN ALGORITHM ON IT AND
THEY LOOK AT THE GREEN AND SO
YOU CAN YOU YOU CAN REDUCE IT
IN A FEW WAYS.
YOU CAN HAVE FRENCH DRAINS AND
DRY WELLS PUT IN LIKE I DID.
BUT THERE'S NO REAL WAY TO KNOW
HOW MUCH STORMWATER IS IS
LEAVING YOUR YOUR PROPERTY AND
SO IT'S JUST A ROUGH
CALCULATION AND THE CITY FOR
QUITE A WHILE HAD MINE WRONG.
THEY HAD AN OVERGROWN PORCH
THAT HAD A GREEN ROOF ON IT
CALCULATED AS YARD AND SO MY
STORMWATER IT WAS SLIGHTLY
LOWER THAN IT SHOULD BE BUT
BECAUSE SO LITTLE OF MY
STORMWATER RUNS OFF BECAUSE I
HAVE MASSIVE FRENCH DRAINS AT
THE BOTTOM OF MY DRIVEWAY THAT
I INSTALLED AT GREAT EXPENSE TO
MANAGE THAT STORMWATER, I
DIDN'T CARE THAT I WAS TAKING A
LITTLE DISCOUNT FOR A COUPLE
OF YEARS.
>> WHAT I DO CARE ABOUT IS THE
TYPE OF BUILDING THAT WE DO
HERE IN TOWN ESPECIALLY UP ON
THE NORTH SIDE WHERE WE I WOULD
HAPPILY TRADE A 25 STOREY HIGH
RISE SITTING ON TWENTY GREEN
ACRES FOR 20 ACRES
OF IMPERVIOUS SURFACE LOW RISE
HOUSING.
>> SO THIS ISN'T ABOUT THERE'S
NOT SOME BIG DEBATE HERE THAT
WE CAN'T HAVE HIGH RISE HOUSING
IN OUR COMMUNITY.
BUT WHAT I WILL SAY IS WHEN WE
START ADDING THINGS INTO
STORMWATER LIKE THE FORESTRY
DEPARTMENT AND ALL THESE OTHER
LITTLE THINGS THAT ARE TACKED
IN THERE, IT STARTS TO LOOK
LESS LIKE A INDETERMINABLE FEE
FOR SERVICE AND MORE LIKE A
TAX.
AND I KNOW THAT THERE HAVE BEEN
FOLKS TRYING TO SUE THE CITY ON
BEHALF AND CREATE A CLASS TO
SAY HOW ARE YOU REALLY
CALCULATING THIS IS NOT
CALCULATED PROPERLY AND IT
KEEPS GOING UP AND UP AND UP
FOR NO REAL GOOD REASON AND IT
DOES HAVE THE KIND OF WHIFF
OF A SLUSH FUND.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE WILSON HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
>> BRANDON DEMCHUK, DO YOU HAVE
A COMMENT?
I I JUST THANK YOU COUNCIL FOR
DOING THE I KNOW SOMETIMES
PAINFUL WORK HERE TO PROPERLY
PRICE SERVICES THAT THE CITY
DELIVERS.
>> UM, WE CAN'T UNDER INVEST IN
OUR IN THE CAPITAL PROJECTS
THAT ARE NECESSARY FOR US TO
PROVIDE WATER AND SEWER AND I
APPRECIATE THE THE DILIGENCE
THAT HAS GONE INTO MAKING THESE
BE PRICED ACCURATE FOR WHAT
THEY ARE.
I ALSO POINT OUT THAT IF YOU IF
YOU'RE CONCERNED ABOUT YOUR
STORMWATER FEES IT IS GENERALLY
IT'S GOING TO BE CHEAPER IF YOU
WERE TO YOU KNOW, IF YOU'RE
GOING TO IF YOU'RE GOING TO
BUILD SOMETHING EXTRA ON YOUR
PROPERTY, IF YOU IF YOU BUILD
IT LIKE A TWO STOREY INSTEAD
OF BUILDING AN ADDITION OUT
THAT CAN SAVE YOU SOME MONEY.
>> THANKS
, ALEX LOWE, DO YOU
HAVE A COMMENT
?
HI, THIS IS ALEX CALLING IN
FROM SOUTH SOUTHEAST DENVER.
>> UM, I JUST WANTED TO SAY
THANK YOU TO THE PERSON TO BE A
BEFORE ME FOR THE AMAZING
PARODY.
THIS IS UH SO SO HILARIOUS.
>> I WAS ROLLING ON ON THE
FLOOR LAUGHING SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
MAYOR.
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER
CALLERS ON LINE FOR THIS
HEARING
.
>> I'M SORRY, MARY.
I HAVE ONE MORE ADAM SAVAGE.
>> DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
HEY, ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ FROM THE
FOURTH WARD.
I'D JUST LIKE TO MENTION THAT
THERE IS A TOOL ONLINE YOU CAN
TAKE A LOOK AT THE AERIAL
PHOTOGRAPHS OF YOUR PROPERTY
AND IF IT'S NOT ACCURATE YOU
CAN DISPUTE THAT AND GET THAT
ADJUSTED.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
, MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
FOR THIS HEARING
SEE NO ON THIS
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER SIX AN ORDINANCE
TO AMEND SECTION 254 OF CHAPTER
TWENTY NINE SEWER RATES
OF TITLE TWO THE CODE OF THE
CITY HONOR SIR.
ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS WASTE WATER SEWER RATES IS
GOING TO BE WHERE THE THIS
COUNCIL'S ZEAL FOR DEVELOPMENT
REALLY STARTS TO STINK
LITERALLY IN MY FOUR YEARS ON
COUNCIL I WAS NEVER GIVEN A
STRAIGHT ANSWER WHAT IS THE
DAILY OPERATING CAPACITY OF OUR
ISLAND BOUND SANITARY
WASTEWATER PROCESSING FACILITY
?
I HEARD VARIOUS THINGS BETWEEN
75 AND 80 PERCENT WHICH IS
PRETTY SHOCKINGLY HIGH.
I'VE COME NOW TO UNDERSTAND
THAT BECAUSE WE CAN'T EXPAND
THE FACILITY IN ITS CURRENT
LOCATION, OUR SOLUTION TO THE
THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS
OF TOILETS AND SEWER USE THAT
YOU ARE ADDING TO OUR COMMUNITY
IS TO RUN IT THROUGH FASTER.
WELL AT SOME POINT THAT'S NOT
GOING TO CATCH UP.
>> IT'S NOT GOING TO HOLD UP
AND WE CAN LOOK BACK AT THESE
GOLDEN DAYS OF YORE AND THINK
DOUBLING OUR RATES FOR WATER
AND SEWER SERVICE OVER 10 YEARS
SEEMED LIKE THE GREATEST THING
THAT WE COULD HAVE EVER HAD
DONE BECAUSE IT'S REALLY GOING
TO IN A FEW YEARS WHEN WE
CAN'T KEEP UP ANYMORE AND
THAT'S WHERE WE'RE HEADED WITH
THIS AND THIS.
THE NOTION THAT THIS IS A FEE
FOR SERVICE IS ALSO SORT OF A
JOKE BECAUSE IT'S BASED ON YOUR
WATER USAGE AND FOLKS WHO HAVE
GROUNDWATER SYSTEMS INSTALLED
WHO DON'T LET A LOT OF WATER
RUN INTO THE SEWER SYSTEM,
DON'T GET A DISCOUNT SO THERE'S
NO DISCOUNT THERE'S NO REAL
METERING OF WHAT'S ON THE WAY
OUT HERE.
AND I WOULD REMIND FOLKS WHO
WRITE THEIR CHECK TO THE CITY
EVERY YEAR OR EVERY MONTH
RATHER A QUARTER THAT WE HAVE A
TIERED SYSTEM IN PLAY HERE THAT
THE SYSTEM IS DESIGNED SO THAT
THOSE WHO LIVE IN SINGLE FAMILY
HOUSING PAY A EFFECTIVELY
HIGHER RATE THAN THOSE WHO LIVE
IN APARTMENT BUILDINGS IN
TOWERS.
AND SINCE MOST OF THOSE TOWERS
THE UTILITIES ARE INCLUDED IN
IT, THERE'S NO INCENTIVE FOR
THE STUDENT IN THE LUXURY HIGH
RISE TO CONSERVE WATER
WHATSOEVER.
SO ONCE AGAIN WE'VE SEEN THAT
THIS BODY SEEMS TO BE LAYING
THE BURDEN OF FINANCING THE
CITY OPERATIONS ON THE
PERMANENT RESIDENTS AND NOT THE
SOMEWHAT TRANSIENT RESIDENTS
THAT COME WITH THE UNIVERSITY.
AND I THINK THAT'S UNFORTUNATE
.
>> THANK YOU
, SIR.
NELSON HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
.
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON
LINE FOR THIS HEARING
.
SEE, KNOWING THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER SIX AN AUDIENCE
TO AMEND SECTION TWO AND I HOPE
YOU JUST DID THAT ONE PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER SEVEN RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE FISCAL YEAR 2025 FEE
ADJUSTMENTS TO THE PUBLIC
SERVICES AREA ENGINEERING
SYSTEMS PLANNING PUBLIC WORKS,
WATER TREATMENT AND WATER
RESOURCE RECOVERY UNITS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
JUST TO A QUICK COMMENT AND A
QUICK STORY.
THE COMMENT IS I SAW POINTED
OUT THAT SOME OF THE FEES FOR
PLANNING ARE GOING DOWN.
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT THESE
DEVELOPERS OF THESE HIGH RISES
HAVE TO DO HERE WITH THE CITY.
>> THOSE RATES ARE BEING CUT BY
OVER A THIRD IN SOME CASES.
WELL, OTHER THINGS ARE GOING UP
AND I THINK THAT'S TYPICAL AND
EXPECTED OF THIS GROUP.
BUT IT DOES HAVE IT CAN HAVE A
NEGATIVE IMPACT ON THE
COMMUNITY.
I HAVE A LONG TIME CUSTOMER AND
FRIEND MAYBE I'VE KNOWN FOR
MAYBE THIRTY YEARS OR SO AND HE
MANAGES A DOWNTOWN PROPERTY AND
THEY TRIED TO GET A SORT OF A
LIFETIME TENANT MOVE IN AND
THEY TRIED TO GET IT AND I MEAN
I CAN TALK ABOUT IT NOW.
IT'S BEEN IN THE PAPER AND THEY
TRIED TO GET A PINBALL PEACH TO
GO INTO THE OLD AVEDA SPACE ON
LIBERTY AND THOMPSON AND THE
DEAL WAS ALMOST SQUASHED
BECAUSE THE CITY CHARGES THEY
WERE ACQUIRED BECAUSE OF THE
USE TO SPRINKLE THE BUILDING
EVEN THOUGH IT'S A STEEL AND
CONCRETE BUILDING THEY REQUIRED
TO PUT SPRINKLER IN BECAUSE
OF THE USE SO MANY PINBALL
PIZZAS ASSEMBLY USE.
NOW DESPITE THAT THEY HAD BEEN
APPROVED FOR ASSEMBLY USE UNDER
ITS EARLIER USE THEY SAID YOU
MUST SPRINKLE THE SYSTEM AND
THE FEE FOR TAPPING INTO NOT
FOR USING THE WATER BUT FOR THE
PERMIT FEE WAS IN EXCESS
OF 150000 DOLLARS AND NOW THAT
I THINK IT WAS LIKE 165
SOMETHING LIKE THAT AND YOU
KNOW, THAT'S ENOUGH TO SQUASH A
SMALL BUSINESS HERE IN ANN
ARBOR AND THAT'S HOW WE END UP
WITH THREE SEVEN ELEVENS AND
TWO DUNKIN DONUTS AND THINGS
LIKE THAT BECAUSE WE FEES THAT
ARE WAIVED BY MASSIVE
DEVELOPMENT MONEY BUT REALLY
HURT LOCAL SMALL BUSINESS OWNER
AND I DID WHAT I COULD TO
CONVINCE THE CITY TO TRY AND
LOWER THOSE FEES OR WAIVE THOSE
FEES OR STRETCH OUT THE PAYMENT
OF THOSE FEES SO THEY COULD
SWING THIS DEAL AND YOU KNOW,
IT DIDN'T HAPPEN AND THE ONLY
THING THAT HAPPENED WAS THERE
WAS SOME YOU KNOW, KIND
OF PRIVATE FUNDRAISING AND
PRIVATE CAPITAL CAME FORWARD
BECAUSE THEY WANTED THIS
BUSINESS TO STAY IN TOWN.
THEY DIDN'T WANT TO MOVE TO
GRANT.
GRAND RAPIDS.
THEY DIDN'T WANT TO MOVE TO
>> AND SO WHEN YOU LOWER THE
GRAND RAPIDS.
FEES FOR PEOPLE WHO ALREADY
>> AND SO WHEN YOU LOWER THE
WRITE THOSE COSTS INTO THEIR
FEES FOR PEOPLE WHO ALREADY
BUSINESS AND DON'T REALIZE THAT
WRITE THOSE COSTS INTO THEIR
THEY'RE HURTING SMALL
BUSINESS AND DON'T REALIZE THAT
BUSINESSES THE SAME OWNER AS
THEY'RE HURTING SMALL
FEES, I I THINK THAT'S A
BUSINESSES THE SAME OWNER AS
PROBLEM AND I THINK ALL THE
FEES, I I THINK THAT'S A
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT TALK YOU
PROBLEM AND I THINK ALL THE
HAVE IN THE WORLD ISN'T GOING
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT TALK YOU
TO HELP WHEN YOU MAKE THESE
HAVE IN THE WORLD ISN'T GOING
KINDS OF BUDGETARY DECISIONS
TO HELP WHEN YOU MAKE THESE
AND SO IT'S REALLY SAD TO SEE A
KINDS OF BUDGETARY DECISIONS
BUDGET THAT YOU CALL BALANCED.
AND SO IT'S REALLY SAD TO SEE A
BUT A BUDGET ISN'T BALANCED
BUDGET THAT YOU CALL BALANCED.
WHEN EACH YEAR IS HIGHER AND
BUT A BUDGET ISN'T BALANCED
HIGHER AND HIGHER THAN THE LAST
WHEN EACH YEAR IS HIGHER AND
WHEN YOU HAVE TO DESPERATELY
HIGHER AND HIGHER THAN THE LAST
RAISE REVENUE TO COVER YOUR
WHEN YOU HAVE TO DESPERATELY
SPENDING.
RAISE REVENUE TO COVER YOUR
THAT'S NOT A BALANCED BUDGET.
SPENDING.
>> THANK YOU
.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
HOUSE WE'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC IS ANYONE ONLINE?
>> I'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING.
I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS ONLINE
FOR THIS HEARING
.
SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NO.
EIGHT RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
FISCAL YEAR TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
FEE ADJUSTMENTS FOR THE
COMMUNITY SERVICES AREA.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
I DON'T HAVE ANYONE ONLINE FOR
THIS HEARING SEE NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
TO PUBLIC HEARING NO.
NINE RESOLUTION TO ADOPT ANN
ARBOR CITY BUDGET AND RELATED
PROPERTY TAX MILEAGE RATES FOR
FISCAL YEAR 2025.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS SHARON LEPIDUS.
I AM A COMMUNITY HOUSING
LOCATOR WITH THE NATIONAL
HOUSING ALLIANCE.
I WOULD LIKE TO THANK THE CITY
COUNCIL FOR PROVIDING FUNDS TO
PILOT THE RISING HOPE FOR
HOUSING PROGRAM.
THIS PROGRAM IS A PARTNERSHIP
WITH THE HOUSING COMMISSION, A
BREAKAWAY CATHOLIC SOCIAL
SERVICES SO SHELTER ASSOCIATION
OF WASHTENAW COUNTY S.O.S
COMMUNITY SERVICES AND THE
WASHTENAW HOUSING POINTS.
IN ADDITION, WE WORK CLOSELY
WITH THE WASHTENAW COUNTY JAIL
REENTRY PROGRAM SHERRIFFS
OUTREACH TEAM AND AVALON'S
REENTRY PROGRAM.
WE ARE AWARE THAT WHEN SOMEONE
HAS A CRIMINAL RECORD THEY ARE
OFTEN EXPERIENCING HOUSING
DISCRIMINATE AND I'M SORRY I'M
NERVOUS AND FIND DIFFICULT TO
SECURE HOUSING AND AT TIMES
MAINTAIN THEIR HOUSING BY
PROVIDING TRAUMA, INFORMED
SUPPORT, RESOURCE NAVIGATION,
EMERGENCY FUNDING.
WE HAVE ASSISTED 91 HOUSEHOLDS
TO MAINTAIN THEIR HOUSING AND
VOUCHERS LOCATE HOUSING, FIND
EMPLOYMENT AND EVEN TO GO BACK
TO SCHOOL THROUGH THE END
OF MARCH.
OUR PARTNERS HAVE ASSISTED 37
HOUSEHOLDS TO SECURE AND LEASE
UP WITH THEIR VOUCHERS BY
PROVIDING APPLICATION FEES,
ADMINISTRATIVE AND HOLDING FEES
AS WELL AS SECURITY DEPOSITS.
IN ADDITION, WE HAVE ASSISTED
30 HOUSEHOLDS TO CLEAR RENT
ARREARS AND TO PREVENT POSSIBLE
EVICTION 21 HOUSEHOLDS WITH
UTILITY ASSISTANCE TO PREVENT
UTILITY SHUTOFFS FOR THE
WINTER.
THE RISING HOPE PROGRAM
CURRENTLY HAS PROVIDED OVER
SIXTY NINE THOUSAND DOLLARS
OF DIRECT FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
TO ASSIST THOSE HOUSEHOLDS IN
MAINTAINING THEIR VOUCHERS.
SECURE HOUSING AND TO MAINTAIN
THEIR HOUSING.
WE KNOW THAT BEING ABLE TO KEEP
PEOPLE STABLY HOUSED HAS A
POSITIVE IMPACT ON THE
INDIVIDUAL FAMILY AND THE
COMMUNITY BEING ABLE TO
MAINTAIN VOUCHERS IS CRITICAL
TO THE STABILITY AND TO THE
RISING HOPE PROGRAM HELPS
INDIVIDUALS FAMILIES REMAIN IN
THEIR HOMES PROVIDING CRITICAL
SERVICES WHEN THEY HAVE A
SETBACK.
I ASK THAT YOU PROVIDE FUNDING
FOR THIS PROGRAM FOR A SECOND
YEAR SO WE CAN CONTINUE TO
SERVE MORE JESTED IMPACT
HOUSEHOLDS IN OUR COUNTY AND
ASSIST THESE HOUSEHOLDS TO
PRESERVE THEIR VOUCHERS AND
INCREASE THEIR HOUSING
STABILITY.
THANK YOU.
THANK
HELLO.
>> MY NAME IS ELIZABETH FINK
AND I'M A HOUSING SUPPORT
COORDINATOR AS COMMUNITY
SERVICES AND I'D ALSO LIKE TO
THANK YOU FOR FUNDING THE PILOT
PROGRAM FOR RISING HOPE FOR
HOUSING LAST YEAR AND I
ENCOURAGE YOU TO SUPPORT IT
AGAIN FOR A SECOND YEAR SHARON
COVERED A LOT OF GREAT THINGS
SO I WILL TRY AND BE AS QUICK
AS I CAN AS ONE OF THE
CASEWORKERS WHO HAS BEEN
WORKING WITH THE CLIENTS THAT
THIS PROGRAM HAS BEEN HELPING.
I'D LIKE TO HIGHLIGHT QUICKLY
JUST A FEW WAYS THAT THIS
PROGRAM HAS BENEFITED CLIENTS
IN OUR COMMUNITY WHO HAVE
HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHERS.
FIRST, THE FLEXIBILITY OF THESE
FUNDS HAS MEANT THAT WE ARE
ABLE TO ACT QUICKLY TO ADDRESS
THE NEEDS OF CLIENTS TO HELP
THEM STABILIZE THEIR HOUSING
WHETHER WORKING WITH CLIENTS
THAT HAVE BEEN LITERALLY
HOMELESS, LIVING IN PLACES NOT
MEANT FOR HUMAN HABITATION,
FIND AND MOVE INTO NEW HOUSING
OR HELP CLIENTS THAT ARE AT A
RISK OF LOSING THEIR HOUSING OR
VOUCHER TO RESOLVE ISSUES
BEFORE THEY BECOME HOMELESS
THEMSELVES.
THIS PROGRAM FLEXIBILITY HAS
BEEN VERY BENEFICIAL.
SECONDLY, THE FOCUS ON TRAUMA
INFORMED CASE MANAGEMENT WITH
THIS PROGRAM MEANS THAT WE ARE
HELPING CLIENTS BUILD A TOOLBOX
OF KNOWLEDGE AND RESOURCES TO
HELP THEM REMAIN SECURELY
HOUSED IN THE FUTURE.
THIRD, THIS PROGRAM HAS
ESTABLISHED A SYSTEM IN JUST
THE LAST 11 MONTHS THAT HELPS
AGENCIES AND NONPROFITS LIKE
THE WASHTENAW HOUSING ALLIANCE,
THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING
COMMISSION A BRIGHTER WAY THE
SHELTER ASSOCIATION, CATHOLIC
SOCIAL SERVICES AND S.O.S WORK
TOGETHER TO CREATE A HOLISTIC
APPROACH TO SERVING CLIENTS WHO
HAVE NOT JUST EXPERIENCED
HOMELESSNESS BUT HAVE BEEN
AFFECTED BY INVOLVEMENT WITH
THE CARCERAL SYSTEM WHICH WE
KNOW IS A BARRIER TO
MAINTAINING HOUSING.
FINALLY, THIS FUND HAS HELPED
EXPAND THE CAPACITY TO SERVE
CLIENTS IN ANN ARBOR IN THE
WASHINGTON COUNTY AREA AND I
SEE A GREAT OPPORTUNITY FOR US
TO PARTNER WITH EVEN MORE
COMMUNITY PROGRAMS IN THE
FUTURE.
SO THANK YOU AGAIN FOR YOUR
CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE
FAMILIES AND INDIVIDUALS MOST
AT RISK OF BECOMING HOUSING
UNSTABLE IN OUR COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU
.
>> MY NAME IS RICK WARD.
>> I WORK I'M THE HOUSING
COORDINATOR FOR A BRIDE AWAY
HERE SPEAK ABOUT THE RISING
HOPE PROGRAM I'VE BEEN WORKING
WITH WASHINGTON HOUSING
ALLIANCE AS WELL AS COMMUNITY
SERVICES.
>> THE SHELTER ASSOCIATION AND
A FEW MORE OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
BE ABLE TO PROCESS THE
REFERRALS AND SEEING THE IMPACT
THAT IT'S HAD ON INDIVIDUALS
BEING ABLE TO COME IN AND BE
CONSIDERED EVEN THOUGH THEY
HAVE FELONIES FOR HELP WITH THE
FUNDING WITH THEIR ARREARS
GETTING NEW HOUSING, KEEPING
THE HOUSING THAT THEY HAVE.
WE'VE HAD PEOPLE COME AND IN
COLLEGE BEYOND HAVE HOUSING AND
GET THE ANXIETIES TAKEN AWAY
THAT NORMALLY HAVE SOMEBODY GO
THROUGH THINGS SHE HAD SPOKE ON
THE TRAUMA IMPACT GO THROUGH
THINGS THAT THE NORMAL PERSON
WOULDN'T GO THROUGH THAT WOULD
KEEP THEM FROM GETTING A JOB OR
KEEP THEM FROM SUCCEEDING IN
LIFE.
THE IMPORTANT PART OF THIS
PROGRAM FOR ME IS I WAS THE
RECIPIENT OF A SPECIAL HOUSING
CHOICE VOUCHER CONSIDERATION IN
JACKSON AS WELL.
THREE AND A HALF YEARS AGO I
WAS SLEEPING IN THE WOODS
HOMELESS MYSELF DIDN'T MEAN
THAT I WASN'T ABLE TO DO
SOMETHING SUCCESSFUL WAS HAS ME
BEING CONSIDERED FOR A SPECIAL
HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER.
I'M NOW STANDING IN FRONT
OF THE HOUSING COORDINATOR FOR
RIGHT AWAY.
I OWN MY OWN RECOVERY AND RENT
EVERY HOUSE IN JACKSON AND I'M
HELPING PEOPLE MYSELF WITH THIS
PROGRAM AND GUYS CONSIDERING
GIVING US A SECOND YEAR WITH IT
WOULD BE AMAZING.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> IOWA CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS MY
NAME IS JOSEPH MEYER.
I WORK AT A WRITER WHERE I COME
BEFORE YOU TODAY TO SPEAK ON
THE IMPORTANCE OF THE RISING
HOPE FOR HOUSING PROGRAM.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR WORK ON THIS
PROGRAM THIS YEAR AND PLEASE
CONSIDER TO CONTINUE IT.
I'M A LIFELONG WASHTENAW COUNTY
RESIDENT.
I WAS BORN AND RAISED IN
YPSILANTI AND I'VE WORKED IN
ANN FOR THE LAST NINE YEARS.
I HAVE SIX FELONIES SIX FIVE
OF WHICH COME FROM FROM ONE
NIGHT.
THESE FELONIES ARE SOMETHING I
DID.
THEY AREN'T WHO I AM AS A MAN
GOOD OR BAD.
I'M A MEMBER OF THIS COMMUNITY
AND THERE ARE MANY MORE LIKE
ME.
WE ARE OUT HERE AND MOST OF US
WANT AN OPPORTUNITY TO BE A
PRODUCTIVE MEMBER OF SOCIETY.
I AM A SUCCESS STORY
FORTUNATELY FOR ME AND I THANK
GOD FOR THIS EVERY DAY I STILL
HAVE BOTH MY PARENTS IN MY LIFE
AND THAT'S THAT'S A BENEFIT AND
THEY'RE BOTH STILL ALIVE.
UM, THE MAJORITY OF RETURNING
CITIZENS DON'T HAVE THIS
LUXURY.
I HAVE VERY SUPPORTIVE FAMILY
AND I HAVE A SAFE PLACE TO
STAY.
UPON MY RELEASE FROM PRISON I
WAS ABLE TO FIND EMPLOYMENT NOT
BECAUSE OF WHAT I KNEW OR
SKILLS I HAD BUT BECAUSE OF WHO
I KNEW.
AND AGAIN THE MAJORITY
OF RETURNING CITIZENS DON'T
HAVE THIS PRIVILEGE.
>> EXCUSE ME.
I WAS ABLE TO ATTEND SMU
THROUGH THE RCF PROGRAM WHICH
IS THE RETURNING CITIZENS
FELLOWSHIP SCHOLARSHIP.
I WAS THE SECOND PERSON TO
COMPLETE IT.
THE FIRST WAS GERALD ACROMION
WHO WAS AN INTERN WHO WORKS
WITH US HIM RIGHT AWAY.
I DID MY INTERNSHIP AT IT RIGHT
AWAY AND AFTER I GRADUATED WITH
MY BACHELORS IN SOCIAL WORK
LAST APRIL OF TWENTY TWENTY
THREE THEY HIRED ME PART TIME.
I PLAN TO GET MY MASTER'S IN
SOCIAL WORK IN THE FALL AGAIN I
AM A SUCCESS STORY BUT I PART
OF THE MINORITY RETURN CITIZENS
DO MY WORK AND AND RIGHT AWAY I
FOUND I FOUND THAT THOSE WHO
DIDN'T HAVE ACCESS TO A PROGRAM
SUCH AS THE RISING HOPE PROJECT
RETURN TO PRISON MORE OFTEN THE
BENEFITS OF HOUSING EXTEND FAR
BEYOND MERE MERE SHELTER.
IT'S A POWERFUL INCENTIVE FOR
PROSOCIAL BEHAVIOR OFFERING
INDIVIDUALS THE STABILITY THEY
NEED TO PURSUE EDUCATION,
EMPLOYMENT AND MEANINGFUL
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SOCIETY SO
WHEN YOU'RE GOING TO VOTE ON
THIS, I ASK THAT YOU THINK
ABOUT THE PEOPLE THAT THIS
PROGRAM CAN AND WILL HELP.
GOD BLESS YOU AND THANK YOU FOR
YOUR TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
I HAVE TO SAY THAT ANY AMOUNT
OF MONEY THAT'S DEDICATED IN
THIS BUDGET TO THE SOCIAL
SERVICES THAT WERE JUST
DISCUSSED BEFORE I GOT UP HERE
IS LIKELY NOT ENOUGH THESE
PROGRAMS I SEE THESE PROGRAMS
HELPING PEOPLE EVERY DAY.
I ACTUALLY DO WORK SOME
VOLUNTEER WORK IN MY TRADES FOR
SOME NONPROFITS WHO DO THIS
TYPE OF THING AND WE COULD DO A
LOT MORE AS A COMMUNITY.
I'M GLAD WE'RE DOING WHAT WE
ARE BUT WE COULD CERTAINLY DO
MUCH MORE IN A WAY THAT
DIRECTLY IMPACTS PEOPLE AND YOU
KNOW, GENERATES THOSE KINDS
OF STORIES THAT ARE IMPORTANT
TO A COMMUNITY.
I DO BELIEVE SOMETIMES THIS
BODY SPENDS LESS TIME MANAGING
OUR CITY AND MORE TIME
MARKETING OUR CITY AND SO MAYBE
WE NEED TO SPEND A LITTLE MORE
MONEY FOR FOR THESE FOLKS
PROGRAMS BACK HERE SO THAT WE
CAN GENERATE SOME MORE
OF STORIES THAT ARE OUR FEEL
GOOD STORIES AND COME TO
MARKETING OUR CITY.
I WHEN I LOOK AT THE TOTAL
AMOUNT OF MONEY HERE, THE 600
620 MILLION SO IT'S GOING TO BE
BY THE END OF THIS FISCAL YEAR
WITH ALL THE CONSTANT OVERHEAD
JUST TO GIVE FAVORABLE
CONTRACTS.
I IT'S SHOCKING TO ME THAT IT
COSTS ME ESSENTIALLY MY MY PART
OF THE PUBLIC CHARGE IS ABOUT
FIFTEEN DOLLARS A DAY TO LIVE
HERE IN THIS COMMUNITY ABOUT
FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR EVERY
MAN WOMAN CHILD DAY THEM WHO
LIVES HERE IN ANN ARBOR THREE
OR 5000 DEPENDING ON HOW YOU
SLICE IT NOW SOME OF THAT COMES
FROM GRANTS AND FEES AND SO ON.
BUT WHEN YOU LOOK AT A SIX
HUNDRED MILLION DOLLAR BUDGET
WELL OVER HALF A BILLION
DOLLARS A BILLION DOLLARS EVERY
TWO YEARS WE'RE SPENDING IN
THIS COMMUNITY I MEAN IT MAKES
YOU THINK OUR STREETS SHOULD BE
PAVED WITH SOMETHING OTHER THAN
POTHOLES AND IT'S JUST IT'S
UNFORTUNATE TO SEE THE MASSIVE
SPENDING ESPECIALLY WHERE IT'S
DIRECTED.
OK NOW THE THING THAT OFFENDS
ME PERSONALLY IS A FORM
COUNCILPERSON IS ONE THE RAISE
THAT YOU'VE ALL GIVEN
YOURSELVES WHEN YOU HAVE THE
HIGHEST ABSENTEE RATE IN THE
MODERN COUNCIL HISTORY.
NUMBER TWO IS THE 5000 DOLLARS
EACH YEAR ASKING FOR TRAVEL
EXPENSES SO THAT YOU CAN GO I
DON'T KNOW WHAT FLIP UP TO
MACKINAC ISLAND AND CHAT IT UP
WITH THE GOVERNOR OR WHATEVER
YOU WANT TO DO WITH THAT.
>> WE HAD A 500 STIPEND WHEN I
WAS ON COUNCIL AND I THINK
EVERYONE WAS RIGHTLY TOO
EMBARRASSED TO USE IT BECAUSE
IT'S PUBLIC SERVICE.
WE'RE HERE TO SERVE THE
COMMUNITY NOT TO TAKE NOT TO
SERVE OURSELVES AND NOT TO
CLIMB THE CORPORATE LADDER,
WHICH IS REALLY WHAT THIS
CHAMBER HAS BECOME THE LAST 20
YEARS NOW I SPENT SEVENTY FIVE
DOLLARS OF THAT 500 DOLLARS TO
ATTEND SOME MICHIGAN
ASSOCIATION A PLANNING SEMINARS
AND I THINK IT WAS MONEY WELL
SPENT LIKE WITH WATER ISSUES.
I DARE SAY THAT I'VE LEARNED
AND POSSIBLY FORGOTTEN AS MUCH
ABOUT PLANNING AND WATER AS YOU
GUYS WILL EVER KNOW.
SO JUST JUST TAKE IT EASY WITH
THE SELF SELF CONGRATULATIONS.
>> OK, THANK YOU
KEN GARBA
SECOND WORD AND THANK YOU
ADMINISTRATOR TONY FOR ALL YOUR
WORK ON THIS BUDGET AND YOUR
STAFF'S WORK USUALLY A
COMPLICATED COMPLICATED
DOCUMENT AND I WANT TO SPEAK
TONIGHT ON JUST ONE LINE ITEM
WHICH I THINK WAS YOUR
INITIATIVE.
WHAT'S THE ONE MILLION DOLLARS
THAT WILL BE ALLOCATED TO THE
MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY
PHASE TWO FEASIBILITY STUDY?
SO THANK YOU FOR THAT.
A YEAR AGO I SPOKE AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING ASKING FOR A
BUDGET PLACEHOLDER FOR THIS.
I'M REALLY PLEASED TO SEE IT IN
THE BUDGET BUT THERE'S A
THERE'S A THERE'S A BUT IF THE
STUDY ISN'T DESIGNED RIGHT, WE
WON'T GET THE ANSWERS WE NEED A
PROPER PHASE TWO SHOULD ARRIVE
TO ARRIVE AT A WELL-INFORMED
VALUATION OF DTD ASSETS.
WE'VE BEEN TOLD THAT THIS PHASE
TWO WILL HAVE A MORE LIMITED
GOAL.
IT WILL ONLY TELL US WHAT
BASICALLY WHAT PHYSICAL ASSETS
OWNS AND THEN WE WAIT FOR THE
COURT TO TELL US WHAT WE HAVE
TO PAY.
>> IN MY OPINION THIS IS THE
WRONG APPROACH.
IT ASSUMES THAT ONLY LITIGATION
CAN REFINE THE MOST SIGNIFICANT
COST QUESTION WHICH IS
VALUATION METHODOLOGY AS YOU
THE BIGGEST COST UNCERTAINTY IS
NOT THE BOOK VALUE OF DTD
PHYSICAL ASSETS PHASE ONE PUT
THAT AT WELL UNDER 200 MILLION
DOLLARS RATHER IT'S WHAT ELSE
MAY BE AWARDED STRANDED COSTS
WHICH ARE THE RETAIL WHOLESALE
DIFFERENCE IN GENERATION
CAPACITY MUST SELL ON THE
WHOLESALE MARKET ONCE AND
BELIEVES THE SYSTEM AND GOING
CONCERN WHICH IS GOOD WILL OR
INTANGIBLE ASSETS INCLUDING THE
VALUE OF ANY OF THE FRANCHISE
ITSELF.
>> STAFF SAYS THAT ONLY
LITIGATION CAN REFINE THESE
NUMBERS.
THAT'S NOT TRUE IN MY OPINION.
YES THERE WILL BE UNCERTAINTY
FURCH RULES ON A CASE BY CASE
BASIS AND THERE IS LITTLE IF
ANY PRECEDENT FOR AWARDING
GOING CONCERN IN MICHIGAN YET
FACED WHO NEEDS TO DIG INTO
THESE QUESTIONS AND END UP WITH
A SPECIFIC VALUATION.
WE OWE THE PUBLIC A USEFUL COST
ESTIMATE BEFORE WE DECIDE TO
MOVE FORWARD WITH MUNICIPAL
CAUSATION OR NOT OTHER CITIES
TO FACE TO THIS WAY.
PUEBLO, COLORADO POPULATION 100
11000 CLOSE TO OURS IN 2019 WE
WILL HIRE A LAW FIRM TO WORK
WITH EAST CONSULTING ON PHASE
TWO VALUATION OF THEIR
UTILITIES ASSETS INCLUDING
STRANDED COSTS AND GOING
CONCERN THEY ENDED UP VALUING
PHYSICAL ASSETS AT 132 MILLION
STRANDED COSTS 176 MILLION AND
TOTAL ACQUISITION COSTS AT
THREE HUNDRED AND THIRTY SIX
MILLION.
IT'S TRUE COLORADO DOESN'T HAVE
PERPETUAL FRANCHISES LIKE WE DO
BUT METHODOLOGY EXIST FOR
PLACING VALUE ON UTILITY
FRANCHISES INCLUDING SELF
RENEWING ONES.
YOU DON'T JUST GIVE UP IN
ADVANCE AND SAY IT CAN'T BE
DONE, IT CAN'T BE DONE WITH
CERTAINTY BUT IT CAN BE DONE.
YOUR SECOND REASON THAT I'VE
HEARD FOR EXCLUDING THAT'S MY
OK THANK YOU FOR YOUR ATTENTION
.
>> REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL.
I WONDER IF THIS WORKS
EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS BRIAN GEHRINGER.
I LIVE IN WARD ONE OF YPSILANTI
I AM HERE OUT OF EXCITEMENT TO
SEE THE MILLION DOLLARS FOR THE
PHASE TWO FEASIBILITY STUDY
THAT MR. GARBER JUST MENTIONED
IN THIS GREAT CITY WE HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO DO SOMETHING
EXTREMELY EXCITING AND THAT
WILL RAISE EVERYONE UP WHICH IS
TO MUNICIPALITIES OUR
ELECTRICITY AND THAT'S
IMPOSSIBLE WITHOUT THIS WITHOUT
THIS STUDY.
I DO SUPPORT KEN'S COMMENTS BUT
MOST I JUST WANT TO SAY THANK
YOU FOR FOR HAVING IT IN THERE.
I HOPE TO SEE IT STAY IN THERE
AND I HOPE FOR THE NEXT FEW
MONTHS AND MAYBE EVEN YEARS TO
BE ONE OF OF REALLY EXCITING
COLLABORATION.
SO THANK YOU ALL SO MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
HOUSE WE'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE YOU'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING HERE?
WE DO HAVE A COUPLE OF CALLERS,
MICHELLE HUF HI.
I FIRST WOULD LIKE TO TALK
ABOUT AGAIN THE THE ON OUR
RESPONSE PROGRAM UM I WISH THAT
THAT HAD A BIG LINE ITEM IN THE
BUDGET.
HERE I AM.
YOU KNOW, I'M WORRIED ABOUT
THAT.
WE'RE GOING TO LOSE THE THREE
AND A HALF MILLION DOLLARS
OF OUR FUNDING AND ALSO I'M
WORRIED THAT THE CITY THAT ONE
OF THE REASONS WE DIDN'T GET A
BID WAS THAT THE CITY INSISTED
THAT THE PROGRAM RAMP UP VERY
QUICKLY TO HAVING A TWENTY FOUR
SEVEN ON OUR RESPONSE PROGRAM
WHICH WOULD BE SOMETHING WHICH
WOULD BE A FIRST IN THE
COUNTRY.
SO THAT WOULD BE THAT'S
PIONEERING AND IT'S VISIONARY
BUT IT NEEDS TO HAVE THE
FUNDING BEHIND IT AND THE THE
ONLY PEOPLE INTERESTED BIDDING
ON THIS SAID THAT THREE AND A
HALF MILLION DOLLARS WASN'T
ENOUGH TO GET US RAMPED UP ALL
THE WAY THERE AT THE SPEED THAT
THEY WANTED AND THE SPEED THAT
THE CITY WANTED.
AND SO I THINK IF THREE AND A
HALF MILLION DOLLARS CAN'T DO
IT THEN ZERO CERTAINLY CAN'T DO
IT.
SO WHAT IS THE CITY'S PLAN TO
FUND THIS?
ARE WE GOING TO CONTINUE
INSISTING ON THE TWENTY SEVEN
RAMPING UP VERY QUICKLY OR ARE
WE GOING TO BE ABLE TO COME TO
AN AGREEMENT THAT WILL ALLOW AN
UNARMED RESPONSE PROGRAM TO
EXIST?
>> AND ANOTHER THING I WANTED
TO REMIND YOU GUYS ABOUT WAS
SIDEWALK SNOW REMOVAL.
I WANT THE CITY TO BE
ACCESSIBLE TO PEOPLE WHO HAVE
MOBILITY PROBLEMS AND THERE'S
RIGHT NOW WE'RE RELYING ON
INDIVIDUALS TO SHOVEL THEIR OWN
SIDEWALKS
TO MAKE SURE THAT
DISABLED PEOPLE CAN GET AROUND
THEIR NEIGHBORHOODS, CAN GET TO
THE BUSSES AND IT'S YOU KNOW,
THERE'S A LOT EVIDENCE THAT
THIS ISN'T SOMETHING THAT WE
CAN RELY ON.
AND I KNOW THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGGS BROUGHT FORWARD A
RESOLUTION A WHILE AGO A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO ASKING ABOUT THE
FEASIBILITY OF THIS AND THE
CITY CAME BACK WITH THE CITY
STAFF CAME BACK WITH A REPORT
ABOUT THAT BUT THEN NO FOLLOW
UP WAS TAKEN.
SO I THINK THAT WE COULD DO
MORE ABOUT SIDEWALK SNOW
REMOVAL AND NOT FORGET OUR
PEOPLE WHO HAVE MOBILITY ISSUES
AND YOU KNOW, JUST LIKE THE
ONLINE RESPONSE PROGRAM, MAYBE
WE CAN'T GET EVERYTHING WE WANT
ALL AT ONCE BUT TAKING TAKING
ONE STEP FORWARD WILL GET US
THERE FASTER AND OR SHORTLY
STEP.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
CALLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
AND FOUR TO SIX DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT PROSCAR TEXT ON MUTE
YOUR PHONE GO AHEAD.
GOOD EVENING ADMINISTRATOR AND
HELPFUL.
MY NAME IS KELLY DIRECTOR
OF THE SHELTER ASSOCIATION
OF WASHINGTON COUNTY.
I WANT THANK YOU FOR PROVIDING
AN ALLOCATION OF FUNDS FOR THE
FROM THE MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX
TO PILOT RISING HOPE HOUSING
PROGRAM THIS PAST FISCAL YEAR
AND SUPPORTING THE SHELTER
ASSOCIATION DIRECTLY AS WELL
WITH MEETING GROWING COMMUNITY
NEED TO SUPPORT THOSE
EXPERIENCING HOMELESSNESS IN
OUR COMMUNITY THIS LAST WINTER
WE SAW RECORD SHELTER NEED AND
ACUITY OF OUR GUESTS AT THE
SHELTER ASSOCIATION CAN USE TO
GROW WITH INCREASED MENTAL AND
PHYSICAL HEALTH NEEDS ALONG
WITH INDIVIDUAL SELF MEDICATING
WITH SUBSTANCES.
ALL THIS IN MIND I WANT TO
EXPRESS SUPPORT FOR THE RENEWAL
AND CONTINUED WORK OF THESE TWO
PROGRAMS SERVICES FOR FUNDING
IN THE CITY'S FBI BUDGET
PROGRAMS AND SERVICES SUPPORT
MANY OF OUR MOST VULNERABLE
NEIGHBORS GETTING BACK ON THEIR
FEET AND GOING FROM CRISIS TO
HOUSING AND HELP THEM TO
MAINTAIN THAT HOUSING EVEN
LOCALLY THE SHELTER ASSOCIATION
SERVES OVER THIRTEEN HUNDRED
PEOPLE ANNUALLY.
FOR SOME PERSPECTIVE ON THE
COMMUNITY, NEED I ASK YOU TO
SUSTAIN THESE PROGRAMS FOR
SECOND YEAR SO THEY CAN SERVE
MORE HOUSEHOLDS IN OUR COUNTRY
?
A HUGE LACK OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN OUR COMMUNITY
PROGRAMS LIKE THIS ARE MORE
IMPORTANT THAN EVER TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THE SUPPORT OF THE
PROGRAM PARTNERS THAT OTHERS
HAVE MENTIONED ALREADY AS WELL
WHO ARE SUPPORTING THESE
EFFORTS AS WELL.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
>> I APPRECIATE YOUR COMMITMENT
TO SERVING SOME OF THE MAJOR
THANK YOU
.
I DON'T SEE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON LINE THEIR HANDS UP
SEE NO
ONE THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF APRIL 15.
TWENTY FOUR MAY HAVE EMOTIONAL
PLEAS TO APPROVE THIS MINUTES
MOVE BY COUNCIL WATSON, THE
SECOND BY CARL ZIMMER DISH
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES ON
FAVRE POSED.
THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED BY ONE
AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION
FIVE TO EIGHT ONE EIGHTY FIVE
TO NINE EIGHT EIGHT A FIVE TO
NINE SIX AND FIVE TO NINE EIGHT
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY THE ANN
ARBOR MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
THIS SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B
ONE I WILL NOT ALL THANK YOU
FOR FOR THE REMINDER I WILL
OBSERVE THAT ALTHOUGH PROPERLY
NOTICED THERE WAS SOME BACK AND
FORTH ABOUT THE LOCATION
OF THIS MEETING AND THAT IT IS
CONCEIVABLE THAT PERSONS
WISHING TO SPEAK AT THE PUBLIC
HEARING ASSOCIATED WITH THIS
ITEM MADE THEIR WAY TO THE
COUNCIL CHAMBERS AND DID NOT
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO COME
HERE TO TO SPEAK.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO WAS WOULD LIKE WOULD HAVE
LIKED TO HAVE SPOKEN AT THE
PUBLIC HEARING IN CONNECTION
WITH THIS ITEM WHO DID NOT HAVE
AN OPPORTUNITY TO DO SO
?
IF SUCH A PERSON IS AT HOME
PLEASE ENTER STANADYNE NOW
I
DON'T HAVE ANYONE ON LINE THERE
SEE NONE.
I WILL CONCLUDE THAT THERE WERE
NO SUCH PERSONS DISCUSSION
WOULD BE ONE COUNCIL MEMBER.
>> SO THIS ORDINANCE REVISION
DEALS WITH WHAT'S CURRENTLY
CALLED A TRAFFIC STUDY AND WHAT
WILL WITH THIS CHANGE BE CALLED
THE TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS.
SO THE KEY CHANGES THAT ARE
BEING PUT FORTH ARE ONE AN
UPDATE TO THE REFERENCE TO THE
CURRENT GUIDE THE TWENTY TWENTY
THREE INSTITUTE
OF TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERS
MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION
IMPACT ANALYSIS FOR SITE
DEVELOPMENT WHICH IS QUITE A
MOUTHFUL BUT I THINK THE
CURRENT REFERENCE DOCUMENT IS
FROM 2010.
IT ALSO SIMPLIFIES LANGUAGE SO
THAT IT'S NOT REDUNDANT WITH
WHAT'S ALREADY IN THE REFERENCE
TO GUIDE AND IT PUTS AN
EMPHASIS ON ALL MODES OF TRAVEL
.
SO CURRENTLY THE ORDINANCE AS
IT'S WRITTEN FOCUSES EXCLUSIVE
ON VEHICULAR TRAFFIC AND IT
DOESN'T REALLY REGARD OTHER
MODES OF TRAVEL.
SO THIS UPDATE IS GOING TO
REVIEW OTHER MODES INCLUDING
TRANSIT, PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE
LEVELS OF SERVICE ALL THINGS
THAT WE CARE ABOUT IMPROVING IN
OUR COMMUNITY.
SO LEVEL OF SERVICE IS A
QUALITATIVE MEASURE
OF MOTORISTS DELAY AND IT WAS
FIRST DEVELOPED FOR HIGHWAYS IN
THE AREA OF RAPID EXPANSION IN
THE USE AND AVAILABILITY
OF PRIVATE AUTOMOBILES.
IT'S REALLY KIND OF CONSIDERED
AN OUTDATED MEASURE FOR SEVERAL
KEY REASONS.
SO FIRST IT DOESN'T SOLVE FOR
THE PROBLEM.
IT WAS DESIGNED TO SOLVE
CONGESTION.
SECOND, CONGESTION IS A PRETTY
POOR MEASURE OF HARM AND THIRD
AND IT FOCUSES EXCLUSIVELY ON
HARMS RATHER THAN BENEFITS AND
SO IT BIASES TO NEGATIVE
EVALUATIONS.
SO AS WE REPORT THIS LEVEL
OF SERVICE CONCEPT OVER TO
LOOKING AT OTHER MODES
OF TRAVEL, I THINK IT'S FAIR
THAT WE ASK HOW THAT HOW WELL
THIS TRANSLATES CONCEPT
TRANSLATES TO NOT AUTOMOBILE
TRANSIT.
SO FOR WALKING AND BIKING FOR
EXAMPLE, DELAYING CONGESTION IS
PROBABLY NOT THE FOREMOST
PRIORITY IN MOST PEOPLE'S MINDS
AND STUDIER PROBABLY AS YOU'RE
WALKING OR THINKING ABOUT
COMFORT , SAFETY, FREQUENCY
OF PEDESTRIAN CONNECTIONS.
SO THE STAFF REPORT I'LL JUST
NOTE THAT ACCOMPANY THESE
CHANGES NOTES THAT THIS IS BUT
ONE STEP FORWARD IN CHANGES TO
HOW WE EVALUATE TRANSPORTATION
IMPACTS AND THEY NOTE THAT WE
DON'T REALLY HAVE CLEAR
THRESHOLDS STILL WITH THIS
CHANGE NOR ARE WE EXPLICIT
ABOUT THINGS LIKE MITIGATION
MEMBERS.
SO I AM SUPPORTING THIS TONIGHT
BECAUSE I THINK IT'S A POSITIVE
STEP FORWARD TO MEETING OUR
TRANSPORTATION VALUES BUT I
REALLY WANT TO SEE FUTURE
CHANGES THAT EMPHASIZE
EVALUATION THAT'S BASED ON OUR
VALUES AND EIGHT TO ZERO.
SO THINGS LIKE ACCESSIBILITY,
PROXIMITY TO THINGS THAT PEOPLE
WANT TO BE NEAR SAFETY ET
CETERA.
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS.
I LIKE TO THINK FOR ACTION FOR
THAT REALLY GREAT DESCRIPTION
OF WHAT WAS GOING ON.
I CAN AGREE WITH EVERYTHING
THAT SHE SAID AND I THINK THIS
IS AN IMPORTANT STEP FORWARD
FOR OUR ORDINANCES FOR THE UDC
TO HAVE GREATER CLARITY ABOUT
THE PROCESSES THAT WE'RE USING
AND IT IS GREAT THAT WE'RE
TALKING TO MULTIMODAL TERMS NOW
AS WELL.
SO I DO THINK IT'S AN IMPORTANT
STEP FORWARD.
I'M GLAD TO SUPPORT IT TONIGHT.
I REALLY APPRECIATE STAFF FOR
DEVELOPING IT AND BRINGING THIS
FORWARD AND ALSO CONCUR WITH
THE STAFF REPORT THAT WE HAVE
WE HAVE MORE WORK TO DO AND
COMES FROM BROCKMAN'S
ASSESSMENT OF OF WHAT SOME
OF THE CHALLENGES ARE WITH
USING LEVEL OF SERVICE.
THERE'S A LOT OF GREAT RESEARCH
BEING DONE IN OUR OWN COMMUNITY
AROUND CONCEPTS
OF ACCESSIBILITY, TRANSPORT
LEADING THAT WORK INTO SORT
OF A USABLE FRAMEWORK THAT OUR
CITY CAN USE IS A LITTLE BIT
MORE CHALLENGING AND TIME
CONSUMING.
SO I KNOW OUR STAFF IS VERY
FAMILIAR WITH THAT WORK AND I'M
EXCITED TO SEE THE CHANGES THAT
WE MIGHT BRING FORWARD NEXT FOR
THE DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR POST IT
IS APPROVED TO AN AUDIENCE TO
AMEND THE ZONING MAP BEING PART
OF SECTIONS 5.2 TO OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY THEN AABA
REZONING OF ONE POINT ZERO SIX
ACRES FROM OUR FORESE
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT TO PUDI PLANGENT
DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT SEVEN ONE
ONE CHURCH PUDI ZONING AND
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISTRICT WELL
NO DENHA DISCUSSION OF THE TWO
SIMILARLY I WILL OBSERVE THAT
ALTHOUGH PROPERLY NOTICED THERE
WAS SOME BACK AND FORTH ABOUT
WHERE WE WOULD BE HOLDING OUR
MEETING TODAY AND SO IT IS
CONCEIVABLE THAT SOME PERSONS
WENT TO COUNCIL CHAMBERS
ANTICIPATING ATTENDING A PUBLIC
HEARING AT THAT LOCATION AND
SPEAKING TO COUNCIL.
WE DID EVERYTHING WE CAN TO
ENSURE THAT THOSE PERSONS DID
HAVE ACCESS TO A PUBLIC HEARING
THROUGH REMOTE MEANS AND WERE
DIRECTED ON WHERE AND HOW TO
COME TO THIS MEETING
UNDERSTANDING THAT THE MEETING
WAS NEVERTHELESS PROPERLY
NOTICED.
WE STILL WISH TO ACCOMMODATE
PEOPLE'S ABILITY AND TO TO
ENGAGE ENGAGE COUNCIL ON THIS
MATTER.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WISHED TO SPEAK AT THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND WAS NOT ABLE TO DO
SO AS A RESULT OF THE MEETING
LOCATION CHANGE?
IF SO WE ARE ABLE TO SPEAK NOW
.
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE IN THAT
SAME CONDITION?
IF SO, PLEASE ENTER STAR NINE
NOW
I HAVE ANY NEW CALLERS FOR
THIS HEARING THAT IS TO SAY NO
ONE HAS ENTERED STANI CORRECT.
THANK YOU.
>> SEE NO ONE I WILL CONCLUDE
THAT NO PERSONS WHO WISH TO
SPEAK AT THE PRIOR PUBLIC
HEARING WERE UNABLE TO DO SO.
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B TO
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH STAFF IN
THE STAFF REPORT AND THE
PLANNING COMMISSION DID NOT
RECOMMEND APPROVAL OF THIS
REZONING.
ULTIMATELY IT'S THE CITY'S CITY
COUNCIL'S RESPONSIBILITY TO
DETERMINE WHETHER IT MEETS THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE ORDINANCE
IN THE CITY CODE .
I WANT TO CLARIFY THAT STAFF
DID NOT SAY THAT THE PROJECT
HAD NO BENEFITS.
THEY RECOGNIZED MANY BENEFITS
THAT I WILL ELABORATE BELOW
THEY RECOMMENDED DENIAL FOR TWO
REASONS BECAUSE THEY BELIEVED
THE BENEFITS COULD BE ACHIEVED
THROUGH OTHER AVAILABLE ZONING
DISTRICTS AND THEY BELIEVED THE
DEVELOPER NEEDED TO OFFER
ADDITIONAL BENEFITS TO WARRANT
THE ADDITIONAL DENSITY.
WHILE I AGREE WITH MUCH OF THE
DETAIL AND ANALYSIS PROVIDED IN
THE STAFF REPORT AFTER CAREFUL
CONSIDERATION I'VE COME TO A
DIFFERENT CONCLUSION.
I'VE CONCLUDED THAT THE
PROPOSAL MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS
OF THE DE ORDINANCE.
THIS PUDI ZONING HAS SPECIFIC
PUBLIC BENEFITS THAT WILL BE
ENFORCED THROUGH THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS WHICH
WE ARE VOTING ON NOW THESE
INCLUDE LEED GOLD, PASSIVE
HOUSE TECHNOLOGIES, SOLAR POWER
,INCREASED ELECTRIC VEHICLE
INFRASTRUCTURE.
THE FACT THAT THIS WILL NOT AS
WAS ERRONEOUSLY SAID EARLIER BE
A GAS POWERED BUILDING.
IT WILL BE A PRIMARILY ELECTRIC
BUILDING.
IT WILL COME CLOSER TO ALL
ELECTRIC AS CAPACITY OF THE
ELECTRIC GRID IN THE AREA
INCREASES.
IT WILL USE GEOTHERMAL
TECHNOLOGY.
IT WILL MAKE AN AFFORDABLE
HOUSING CONTRIBUTION OF SEVEN
POINT TWO DOLLARS DOLLARS IN
LIEU OF PROVIDING UNITS ON SITE
AND THERE WILL BE PUBLIC ART
STAFF FOUND THAT THE BENEFITS
OFFERED ARE NOT PROPORTIONAL TO
THE REZONING REQUEST AND THAT
THESE COULD BE ACHIEVED INSTEAD
THROUGH EXISTING ZONES SUCH AS
D2.
I SEE THIS DIFFERENTLY.
THESE PUBLIC BENEFITS ARE
REQUIRED BY THE PD WHICH IS ITS
OWN UNIQUE DISTRICT.
THEY ARE NOT REQUIREMENTS
OF ANY CURRENT ZONING DISTRICT
IN THE CITY.
ONE OF THE PURPOSES OF A PD IS
FOR THE CITY TO BE ABLE TO
ENFORCE THESE KINDS OF BENEFITS
WHEN THEY ARE OFFERED THE USA'S
PROPOSED IN THIS PUDI REZONING
ARE CONSISTENT WITH MANY OF OUR
EXISTING COMPREHENSIVE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN GOALS AS
PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPER AND
STAFF IN THE PETITION AND AND
IN THE STAFF REPORT I REACH A
DIFFERENT CONCLUSION THAN STAFF
DID REGARDING THE BALANCE
OF ACHIEVING THESE GOALS IN
THIS CASE SPECIFICALLY THE
IMPORTANCE OF EXPANDING THE
HOUSING SUPPLY RELATIVE TO
OTHER GOALS IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT IS
EXPANDING THE HOUSING SUPPLY IN
A CITY WITH A RENTAL MARKET
VACANCY RATE OF TWO POINT EIGHT
PERCENT OUTWEIGHS SOME OTHER
GOALS IN THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
FOR ME ALSO THE USE IS PROPOSED
DO NOT HAVE A DETRIMENTAL
EFFECT ON PUBLIC UTILITIES OR
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES.
THIS IS A RESIDENTIAL USE NEXT
TO OTHER ADJACENT RESIDENTIAL
USES FOR THE RECORD, PLANNING
STAFF AT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING STATED THAT
THIS PROJECT IS NOT OUT
OF CHARACTER OR CONTEXT.
IT IS IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT TO
UM CAMPUS AND KITTY CORNER FROM
THE NINETEEN STOREY UNIVERSITY
TOWERS.
>> I WILL NOTE THAT IN THE
DECADE FROM 2011 TO TWENTY
TWENTY ONE TOTAL UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN ENROLLMENT HAS
INCREASED BY EIGHT THOUSAND
THREE HUNDRED AND FORTY TWO
STUDENTS.
THAT'S NINETEEN POINT FOUR
PERCENT TWENTY TWENTY THREE SO
AN ADDITIONAL INCREASE OF ABOUT
800 STUDENTS RAISING THE TOTAL
TO ABOUT 52000 THAT'S OVER 9000
STUDENTS ADDED SINCE 2011 WAS
THAT THAT SOUND OK I CAN SAY
MORE LATER I THANK YOU SO I
WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT I'M
CALLING FOR RESERVE THAT SHOULD
HAVE MORE SUPPLY EVENTUALLY.
I KNOW THAT OUR HOUSING CRISIS
AND YOU HEARD A LOT ABOUT THIS
AND IN ADDITION TO THAT WE
HAVEN'T SHARED IS THIS THIS
COULD POSSIBLY CONTRIBUTE AN
ESTIMATED FIVE MILLION ANNUALLY
IN PROPERTY TAXES TO THE CITY
AND SCHOOLS.
I DO ALSO HAVE SOME QUESTIONS
THAT I'D LIKE TO ASK FLAGSTAFF
ABOUT.
ONE OF THEM IS I'VE HEARD FROM
MANY PARENTS THE CHILDREN HAVE
TO TALK ABOUT CONCERNS AS TODAY
ABOUT THIS DEVELOPMENT
SPECIFICALLY THAT THIS WOULD BE
BUILT A BUDDING ABOUT A THREE
FOOT SETBACK.
I RECEIVE FUNDS THAT SURROUNDS
THE PLAY AREA AND THE NEAREST
PARKING GARAGE AS WE KNOW YOU
KNOW, CHILD CARE CENTERS ARE SO
IMPORTANT THEY'RE ALSO
VIRTUALLY NONEXISTENT.
>> I'M WONDERING IF THERE HAS
BEEN ANY SORT OF STUDY THAT WAS
CONDUCTED IN THE DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS REGARDING BOTH THE
SOUND RISK AND THE OTHER
CONSTRUCTION.
MR.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBERS.
THERE WAS A SEPARATE STUDY YOUR
ASSESSMENT ON THAT PART OF THE
PROCESS WHICH IS THE PERMITTED
USES AND THE DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS MEANING THE
COMPLETION OF THE PROJECT.
HOWEVER, IT IS THE ROLE AND
RESPONSIBILITY OF BUILDING
OFFICIALS THROUGH THE BUILDING
DEPARTMENT AND ENFORCING THE
BUILDING CODE WHICH CONTAINS
ELEMENTS OF CONSTRUCTION,
SAFETY AND ADJACENT AND
PROTECTIONS FOR ADJACENT USES
DURING CONSTRUCTION.
THANK YOU.
SO I KNOW THAT THE SAME
DEVELOPER HAD CONDUCTED A SHADE
STUDY AND ANOTHER DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT IN THE SAME AREA OR
ESSENTIALLY SEEING WHETHER THE
NEW DEVELOPMENT WOULD SHADE
OTHER PROPERTIES IN CLOSE
PROXIMITY.
>> DO YOU KNOW FOR SHADE STUDY
WAS CONDUCTED AS PART OF THE
DEVELOPMENT PROCESS?
I DO BELIEVE THAT SOME SHADE
MR. VARIABLES WERE PROVIDED AS
PART OF THE INITIAL ALLOCATION
BUT BECAUSE WE DO NOT AND THEY
WERE REVIEWED AND LOOKED AT BUT
WE DO NOT HAVE A STANDARD TO
REVIEW THEM THERE.
IT IS NOT A STANDARD
OF APPROVAL NOR DO WE HAVE ANY
TYPE OF MEASUREMENT WHERE THAT
INDICATES HOW MUCH IS TOO MUCH
LATER TO.
CAN I ASK ONE MORE QUESTION?
YES, YES.
YES.
OK, LASTLY, YOU KNOW I WANTED
TO KNOW THERE ARE THESE
CONCERNS ABOUT THE CHILDREN
HAVING TO BE MOVED.
HAVE THERE BEEN DISCUSSIONS
BETWEEN DEVELOPERS PLANNING
STAFF, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
IN REGARDS TO HOW THIS COULD
IMPACT THE CHILD CARE BECAUSE
WE HAVE NOT GOTTEN TO THAT
LEVEL CONSTRUCTION.
WE HAVE NOT HAD ANY
RECONSTRUCTION MEETINGS.
THIS IS NOT AN APPROVED PROJECT
YET.
WE HAVEN'T HAD ANY DISCUSSIONS
BETWEEN THE CITY STAFF BUILDING
DEPARTMENT AND THE DEVELOPER.
I CANNOT ATTEMPT OR SPEAK TO
WHETHER THE DEVELOPER HAS
SPOKEN OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN OR THE CHILD CARE
MANAGER DIRECTOR.
OK, THANK YOU COUNCILMAN.
>> THANK YOU.
I HAVE A COUPLE OF SIMILAR
QUESTIONS I WAS GOING TO SAY
FOR THE SITE PORTION BUT SINCE
YOU'RE ALREADY HERE WITH US I
MIGHT ASK THEM NOW SO SIMILAR
ABOUT SIMILARLY ABOUT THE
CONCERNS WE HEARD REGARDING
TOWNSLEY.
I WAS WONDERING IF YOU COULD
SPEAK A LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT
KIND OF STANDARDS OF SAFETY FOR
NEIGHBORING SITES IN
CONSTRUCTION MORE GENERALLY.
I KNOW IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU
HAVEN'T GOTTEN TO THAT THAT
PHASE OF CONVERSATION YET.
BUT IF YOU COULD TALK ABOUT
WHAT WHAT STEPS ARE TAKEN TO
ENSURE PROXIMATE PROXIMATE
SAFETY FOR SITES NEXT TO
CONSTRUCTION SITES?
WELL, UNFORTUNATELY I CAN ONLY
PROVIDE MY ANECDOTAL
EXPERIENCES WHICH YOU PROBABLY
SHARE SITES NEED TO BE SITES
NEED TO BE DELINEATED AND
PROTECTED BY CONSTRUCTION
FENCING THE HEIGHT OF THE
CONSTRUCTION OF FENCING SEEMS
TO DEPEND ON WHAT TYPE
OF CONSTRUCTION IS BEING
PROPOSED, HOW DEEP THE HOLE IS
FOR THE FOUNDATION.
WE'VE ALL SEEN SOME
CONSTRUCTION SITES MAYBE HAVE
THE SNOW FENCING AROUND IT
THAT'S WHAT THREE OR FOUR FEET
HIGH AND THEN WE'VE SEEN SOME
DOWNTOWN PROJECTS THAT HAVE A
TEN FOOT CHAIN LINK FENCE
SURROUNDING THOSE.
I DO KNOW THAT THAT ALL OF THE
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES NEED TO
HAPPEN ON THAT SITE IF THEY DO
GO OFF SITE, WHETHER IT BE IN
THE CITY RIGHT AWAY CITY
SIDEWALKS THERE ARE SPECIAL
LICENSES AND AGREEMENTS AND
PAYMENT FEES AND RENTAL FEES
FOR THAT CITY AREA SIMILAR IF A
DEVELOPER IS PLANNING ON USING
AN ADJACENT PROPERTY THEY NEED
A TEMPORARY EASEMENT FOR THAT.
THEY NEED PERMISSIONS FOR THAT
AND A PROPERTY OWNER IS NOT
OBLIGATED WHATSOEVER TO DO
THOSE THINGS.
>> I ALSO KNOW FROM MY
EXPERIENCE SAME THING WITH THE
CRANE SWING YOU DO NOT HAVE
PERMISSION TO GO ABOVE SOMEONE
ELSE'S PROPERTY.
THEIR RIGHTS ARE ALSO THEIRS.
>> SOME PROPERTIES GIVE
PERMISSION AND SOME DO NOT AND
IF YOU DON'T HAVE PERMISSION TO
SWING YOUR CRANE OVER YOU DON'T
HAVE PERMISSION TO SWING YOUR
CRANE OVER
.
>> A COUPLE OF THE QUESTIONS
THAT WE HEARD FROM FROM PUBLIC
COMMENT.
NO, WE GOT ASKED ABOUT PUTTING
INTO CONTEXT THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING CONTRIBUTION.
>> IT'S DIFFICULT I WOULD SAY
TO PROBABLY TO TO SPECULATE
EXACTLY HOW MANY UNITS
OF HOUSING THAT MIGHT COST OR
BE ABLE TO CREATE SPECIFICALLY
BECAUSE OF WHAT WE HEARD FROM
ANOTHER PUBLIC COMMENTER WHICH
IS ONE OF THE THINGS THAT OUR
HOUSING COMMISSION HAS BEEN
INCREDIBLY ADEPT AT DOING IS
TAKING THAT MONEY
AND
MULTIPLYING IT.
AND SO SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS
MAY TURN INTO TWENTY ONE
MILLION DOLLARS IF THEY ARE
ABLE TO GET MATCHING FUNDS FROM
EITHER PRIVATE FOUNDATIONS OR
STATE AND FEDERAL GRANT
DOLLARS, THINGS LIKE THAT THAT
CAN HELP CONTRIBUTE TO THAT
WORK.
>> AND SO HAVING HAVING THAT
MONEY IN THE THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING COMMISSION'S HANDS
OFTEN ALLOWS THEM TO USE IT
MORE FLEXIBLY TO TO ACTUALLY
CREATE MORE HOUSING THAN WOULD
BE CREATED BY THE PRIVATE
DEVELOPER WITHIN THE UNITS OR
WITHIN THE BUILDING ITSELF
.
>> YOU SORRY I'M LOOKING FOR MY
MICROPHONE THERE AND IT'S ON
AND IT'S HERE.
OK, GOOD.
SO I'LL BE FAIRLY BRIEF.
I AM IN SUPPORT OF THIS PROJECT
AND OTHER COUNCIL MEMBERS HAVE
IN PARTICULAR COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH COVERED A LOT OF GROUND
PARTICULARLY WITH REGARD TO THE
INCREASE IN STUDENT IN THE
STUDENT POPULATION AND HOW THAT
HAS IMPACTED UM THE HOUSING
MARKET HERE.
I WOULD JUST MAKE THE POINT
THAT LAST JUST LAST MONTH WE
PASSED A RESOLUTION THIS BODY
DID THAT MADE HOUSING SUPPLY
INCREASING THE SUPPLY OF MARKET
RATE HOUSING OR HOUSING AT ALL
LEVELS INCLUDING MARKET RATE A
TOP PRIORITY OF THE CITY AND
HAD THAT RESOLUTION BEEN PASSED
PRIOR TO THIS PROJECT COMING TO
PLANNING STAFF AND THE PLANNING
COMMISSION, WE ALMOST CERTAINLY
WOULD HAVE SEEN RECOMMENDED
APPROVALS COMING FROM THOSE
THOSE TWO GROUPS.
SO THAT RESOLUTION IS NOW IN
PLACE AND THIS FALLS RIGHT IN
LINE WITH EXACTLY WHAT THAT
RESOLUTION SEEKS TO DO WHICH IS
TO AS QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE GET
MUCH NEEDED HOUSING ON THE
MARKET HERE IN TOWN.
AND SO FOR THAT REASON I WILL
BE SUPPORTING TONIGHT COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS, I THANK YOU AND I
SPOKE FAIRLY EXTENSIVELY AT THE
LAST MEETING AROUND SORT OF THE
REASONS I WAS SUPPORTING THIS
PROJECT AND SO I DON'T WANT TO
REPEAT THOSE THOSE SAME
COMMENTS TONIGHT.
I DID WANT TO GO INTO SORT
OF THE THE ISSUE THAT WAS
BROUGHT UP THAT HAS ALREADY
BEEN RAISED AT THE COUNCIL
TABLE TONIGHT AROUND THE CHILD
CARE FACILITY.
ONE THING THAT SHOULD GIVE SOME
COMFORT IS IN OUR SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATION P THIRTEEN THERE IS
A PROVISION THAT SAYS TO DESIGN
THE DEVELOPERS ARE REQUIRED TO
DESIGN, CONSTRUCT, REPAIR AND
MAINTAIN THIS DEVELOPMENT IN
ACCORDANCE WITH PROVISIONS
OF CHAPTER ONE EIGHTEEN NOISE
CONTROL TO ENSURE THAT ANY
NOISE EMANATING FROM SAID
DEVELOPMENT WILL NOT IMPACT
NEARBY RESIDENTS OR BUSINESSES.
IN ADDITION TO THE DEVELOPER
SHALL REVIEW EXISTING NOISE
SOURCES SURROUNDING SAID
DEVELOPMENT AND INCORPORATE
NECESSARY DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES TO
ENSURE THAT THE FUTURE TENANTS
WILL NOT BE EXPLOITED EXPOSED
TO NOISE SOURCE IN VIOLATION
OF CHAPTER ONE NINETEEN ONE
QUESTION FOR STAFF.
I KNOW THAT YOU'VE MENTIONED
THAT THIS IS SORT OF BUILDING
CODE IS GOING TO GUIDE THE
CONSTRUCTION PHASE OF THIS.
ONE OF THE CONCERNS THAT'S BEEN
BROUGHT UP IS JUST SIMPLY THE
IMPACT TO THE TO THE PLAYGROUND
MIGHT RESULT IN CLOSURE.
OBVIOUSLY THE CONSTRUCTION
CANNOT RESULT IN DAMAGE BUT ARE
THERE ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
THAT WE SHOULD BE PUTTING IN
THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
THAT ARE NOT ADDRESSED WITH BUT
WITHIN BUILDING CODE THAT
MIGHT, YOU KNOW, ADDRESS THE
CONCERNS THAT WERE RAISED
TONIGHT?
DO YOU FEEL LIKE THE THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATION AND THE
BUILDING CODE ESSENTIALLY
SUFFICIENT TO ADDRESS THE
CONCERNS OF THE ADJACENT
PROPERTY OWNERS TO PUT YOU ON
THE SPOT?
WELL, I WILL POINT THAT'S
THAT'S FINE.
I WILL POINT OUT THAT YOU'RE
MENTIONING THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT, NOT THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS BUT NEVERTHELESS ON
THE ONE HAND SO LET ME SAY THIS
I THINK THAT ARE THEY
SUFFICIENT IN THE EYE OF THE
BEHOLDER?
I THINK IF YOU ASK ONE PARTY
THEY MIGHT THINK THEY ARE IF
YOU PERHAPS ASK ANOTHER PARTY
YOU MIGHT THINK THAT MORE
PROTECTIONS ARE DESIRED COUNT
YOU CAN ADD MORE ITEMS TO A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
BUT BEFORE DOING SO I WOULD
SEEK THE ADVICE OF YOUR OF YOUR
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE ABOUT
REGARDING THE ENFORCEABILITY
OF THEM.
YOU CAN ADD A LOT TO A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT BUT IT IT
THEN IT HAS TO BE ENFORCED AND
YOU ALSO NEED IF THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN
TWO PARTIES BETWEEN THE CITY
AND THE DEVELOPER SO BEFORE
ADDING MORE BEFORE AND
DETERMINING WHETHER THEY'RE
SUFFICIENT OR THERE SHOULD BE
MORE THINGS INVOLVED, I WOULD
SEEK THE ADVICE OF THE
ATTORNEYS OFFICE
.
>> SO WITH ALL DUE RESPECT TO
MR. LEO, SHE IS A PLANNER.
SHE SHE IS NOT THE SUBJECT
MATTER EXPERT ON BUILDING
CODE .
SHE REALLY CANNOT OPINE ON
CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
ENSURING SAFETY IS SIMPLY NOT
THE RIGHT PERSON FOR THIS LINE
OF QUESTIONING.
>> SHE'S SHE'S DOING A GREAT
JOB BUT SHE'S TRYING TO BE
RESPONSIVE TO THE QUESTIONS
THAT ARE BEING PUT OUT THERE.
>> IF YOU WANT TO HAVE FEEDBACK
FROM A BUILDING OFFICIAL WHO
CAN SPEAK TO THE CODE , WE WILL
BE GLAD TO PROVIDE THAT.
WE SIMPLY DON'T HAVE SOMEONE
FROM BUILDING ON STANDBY FOR
THIS EVENING COUNCIL MEMBER OR
DENHA.
>> THANK YOU.
I ALSO JUST WANT TO BRIEFLY
TOUCH ON YOU KNOW, SIMILAR TO A
COUNCIL MEMBER I DID SPEAK AT
LENGTH AT THE LAST MEETING
ABOUT WHY I DO BELIEVE THAT
THERE IS BENEFIT HERE IN MOVING
FORWARD WITH THIS.
BUT ANOTHER THING THAT I THINK
WE'VE REGULARLY HEARD WITH A
NUMBER OF PROJECTS INCLUDING
THIS ONE THAT HAVE COME BEFORE
COUNCIL IS REALLY WITH RESPECT
TO THE AFFORDABILITY VERSUS
LUXURY COMPONENT AND AND I
THINK WE HAVE HEARD FROM OTHER
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC AND WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT THIS AROUND THIS
TABLE, THAT LUXURY IS REALLY
MORE OF A MARKETING TERM.
THERE'S THERE'S NEW HOUSING AND
AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I
THINK WE NEED TO LOOK AT AS AS
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT BEFORE ABOUT
THE FACT THAT WE HAVE NOT KEPT
UP WITH THE GROWING DEMAND FOR
HOUSING IN THIS COMMUNITY THAT
WE ARE PLAYING CATCH UP AT THIS
POINT IS LOOKING NO FURTHER
THAN ANOTHER UNIVERSITY TOWN
WHOSE POPULATION IS ALSO
GROWING, WHICH IS AUSTIN, TEXAS
.
OVER THE LAST YEAR RENTS HAVE
FALLEN SEVEN PERCENT THE
BIGGEST DROP OF ANY US CITY
HOME PRICES HAVE FALLEN OVER 11
PERCENT SINCE TWENTY TWENTY TWO
ALSO MORE THAN ANY OTHER METRO
METRO AREA IN THE COUNTRY.
AND THE THING THAT AUSTIN DID
BETTER THAN ANY OTHER CITY IN
THE COUNTRY IS THEY ADDED MORE
NEW APARTMENTS AS A PROPORTION
OF EXISTING UNITS THIS YEAR
THAN ANY OTHER CITY IN THE
COUNTRY.
WE HAVE FALLEN DRAMATICALLY
BEHIND THE DEMAND IN THIS CITY
WE HAD PRIOR TO THE PANDEMIC AS
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT THE LAST
TIME WE STUDIED THIS EIGHTY
THOUSAND PEOPLE WERE COMMUTING
INTO THE CITY EACH AND EVERY
DAY.
PEOPLE THAT WANT TO LIVE HERE
ARE LIVING IN YPSILANTI AND
OTHER PLACES BECAUSE THEY CAN'T
AFFORD TO LIVE HERE.
THEY CAN'T FIND HOUSING HERE
AND WE KNOW THAT ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT IS CONTRIBUTING TO
THAT IS THE LACK OF HOUSING
STOCK.
AND SO I'M GOING TO SUPPORT
THIS.
I THINK WE NEED TO ADDRESS OUR
HOUSING CRISIS AS I MENTIONED
AT OUR LAST MEETING.
I THINK WE NEED TO CONTINUE
ANSWERING THE GOVERNOR'S CALL
TO ADDRESS THE STATEWIDE CRISIS
THAT IS HAPPENING BY BUILDING
MORE HOUSING OF ALL LEVELS.
>> THANKS, COUNCILOR SONG IN
1963 ANN ARBOR WELCOME TO EIGHT
STORY TOWERS WITH ONE HUNDRED
AND FORTY TWO APARTMENTS.
THIS IS WHAT IS WHAT WE NOW
KNOW IS LORIE TERRACE AND THAT
PREDATES THE 1965 PASSAGE
OF THE OLDER AMERICANS ACT PART
OF LBJ'S GREAT SOCIETY PROGRAM.
WHAT I LOVE ABOUT THIS THIS
EFFORT IS A QUOTE FROM A
NEIGHBOR TO THIS PROJECT AND
YOU HAVE AN EMERITUS EMERITUS
VPI AND SUPPORTER WHO SAID THAT
IT MOVED THE NEEDLE ON THE
NEEDS OF SENIORS AND HOW TO
RESPOND AS THE POPULATION AGED
A MORE INFORMED PUBLIC BEGAN
BEGAN ADVOCATING FOR BETTER
SENIOR SERVICES WHICH LED TO
BOTH PRIVATE AND PUBLIC
DEVELOPMENT.
>> SO IF YOU DON'T FEEL LIKE WE
NEED MORE PRIVATE HIGH RISES
THEN CONSIDER HOW A TAXES AND
CONTRIBUTION TO THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND PROVIDES MORE
PROJECTS LIKE LOITERERS AND
LIKE THE DUNBAR TOWER WHICH
WILL BE COMING AT 121 CATHERINE
.
AND THAT IS ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND IF YOU
QUESTION THE ARGUMENT THAT
SUPPLY WILL DEPRESS RENTS
ACROSS ACROSS THE CITY THEN I
ENCOURAGE YOU TO LOOK INTO AN
ARTICLE THAT WAS PUBLISHED BY
THE FEDERAL RESERVE BANK
OF MINNEAPOLIS.
WE'RE ACTUALLY DIRECTLY
ADDRESSES HOW NEW APARTMENTS
CREATE OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL
WHERE MARKET RATE RENTAL
CONSTRUCTION IN MINNEAPOLIS IS
FREED UP MORE AFFORDABLE HOMES
FOR HOUSEHOLDS ACROSS THE
INCOME SPECTRUM INCREASES
AFFORDABILITY SO THAT A HUNDRED
NEW MARKET RATE HOUSING
PROVIDED FOR 70 NEW VACANCIES
IN LOWER INCOME NEIGHBORHOODS.
SO WHO BENEFITS FROM NEW MARKET
RATE APARTMENTS EVEN THOUGH
THOSE NEW UNITS AREN'T
TYPICALLY OCCUPIED ARE
TYPICALLY OCCUPIED BY
HOUSEHOLDS ON THE HIGHER END
INCOME?
I'M QUOTING THE ARTICLE HERE
THE CHAIN OF RESIDENTIAL MOVES
BROUGHT ABOUT BY THEIR
CONSTRUCTION BENEFITS MANY MORE
HOUSEHOLDS.
TODAY'S LOWER PRICED RENTAL
HOUSING WAS OFTEN
THE NEW
EXPENSIVE RENTAL HOUSING
OF YESTERYEAR AND IT DOESN'T
TAKE DECADES OF NEW APARTMENTS
TO BE TO PUT DOWNWARD PRESSURE
ON RENTS ELSEWHERE IN A
METROPOLITAN AREA, NEW UNITS TO
HELP KEEP HER NEW UNITS HELP
KEEP CURRENT PRICES DOWN FOR
EVERYONE BY OPENING NEW
OPPORTUNITIES FOR LOW AND
MODERATE INCOME RENTERS RENTERS
OVER A SHORT YEARS, OVER A FEW
SHORT YEARS THROUGH A CHAIN
OF RESIDENTIAL MOVES.
IT'S SUPPORTED BY ECONOMISTS.
IT'S SUPPORTED BY IT'S AN
EXCELLENT PIECE SO I HOPE FOLKS
DON'T THINK THAT IT'S POLITICAL
THAT IT'S YOU KNOW, PRIVATE
EQUITY IS FUNDING OR MOTIVATING
THE WORK HERE.
IT'S IT'S ECONOMICS.
IT'S DEMAND SUPPLY AND DEMAND.
WE ARE LUCKY TO HAVE THAT
DEMAND IN A CITY LIKE THE NRA
BECAUSE IT MEANS WE'RE A
GROWING COMMUNITY.
IT MEANS THAT WE CAN WELCOME
FOLKS WHO ARE DIFFERENT FROM
OURSELVES AND IT MEANS THAT WE
CAN WELCOME FOLKS WHO ARE
BEGINNING THEIR THEIR HISTORIES
HERE IN THIS CITY LIKE MANY
OF US HAVE.
>> SO I'M HERE IN SUPPORT
OF IT.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH A COUPLE
OF ISSUES THAT HAVE BEEN RAISED
.
>> I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD SEE
THE SEVEN MILLION DOLLAR
CONTRIBUTION TO THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND AS A DRIVER
OF THIS PROJECT OR THIS
DECISION.
WHAT DRIVES THIS DECISION IS
THE STANDARDS OF THE PD AND
THAT IS ONE OF THE BENEFITS BUT
NOT THE ONLY THOUGH THE
QUESTION WAS RAISED AND THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING MILLAGE
RIGHT NOW IS BRINGING IN JUST
OVER SIX MILLION DOLLARS A YEAR
AND SO THAT CONTRIBUTION IS
LIKE ANOTHER YEAR AND AS OTHERS
HAVE SAID, IT'S NOT IT DOESN'T
TRANSLATE DIRECTLY INTO DOLLARS
OF UH THE DOLLARS DON'T
TRANSLATE DIRECTLY INTO UNITS
BECAUSE THOSE DOLLARS WILL BE
LEVERAGED TO GET FEDERAL AND
STATE GRANTS AS WELL AS PRIVATE
MONEY.
AND SO SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS
MAY BE WORTH TWENTY ONE TO
TWENTY EIGHT MILLION WHEN WE'RE
DONE USING IT TO GET GRANTS.
>> SO THAT'S A LOT.
UM, YOU ASKED ABOUT SHEILD.
I WANT TO REMIND EVERYONE THAT
A NINETEEN STOREY BUILDING IS
WHAT THEY CAME IN WITH FIRST
AND IN RESPONSE TO I THINK
ENTIRELY REASONABLE CONCERNS
AND QUESTIONS ABOUT TRADE THEY
DROPPED TWO STORIES AT THE
NORTH END AND THEY STEPPED DOWN
TO TWELVE STORIES AT THE SOUTH
END TO PRECISELY TO REDUCE
SHADING ON THE TOWNSLEY CENTER.
SO THEY STEPPED DOWN SEVEN
STORIES TO TWELVE ON THE ON THE
SOUTH END AND THAT REDUCED THE
NUMBER OF UNITS FROM 350 TO TWO
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY THREE.
SO THAT WAS A SIGNIFICANT
CHANGE IN THE PROJECT.
>> WE DO NOT DO STUDIES FOR
WIND AND I'M FINISHED.
>> WELL THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
WHAT SOME OF OUR COLLEAGUES
HAVE ALREADY SAID TONIGHT I AM
BOUGNAT AND FOR THE REASONS
THAT THEY SHARED I AM GOING TO
BE SUPPORTING THIS TONIGHT
AGAIN THE SEVEN POINT ONE
DOLLARS MILLION CAN BE
EXPONENTIALLY INCREASE.
>> THAT IS OUR ENTIRE BUDGET
FOR THE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
FISCAL YEAR FOR THE END OF OUR
HOUSING COMMISSION AND SO THAT
MONEY WILL BE PUT TOWARDS
NEEDED COST OF CREATING NEW
HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS, BUY THEM
AT THE SAME TIME.
>> I DO HOPE THAT BY MOVING
FORWARD IN THIS PROCESS WE CAN
ALL WORK A LITTLE BIT MORE
COLLABORATIVELY WITH BOTH.
I WANT TO SEE THINGS WITH THE
DEVELOPER AND THE UNIVERSITY IN
REGARDS TO COLLABORATING ABOUT
HOW THIS WILL IMPACT THE
CHILDREN'S HONOR.
THE TWELVE CHILDREN CENTER.
>> I ALSO AM INTERESTED IN
LEARNING MORE ABOUT THE
WORKFORCE HOUSING PIECE.
THERE CAN BE SOME SERIOUS
EQUITY CONCERNS IN REGARDS TO
WORK FOR US HOUSING.
WHAT WILL HAPPEN IF SOMEONE
LOSES A JOB OR THEY LOSE THEIR
HOME?
SO I DO WANT US TO THINK ABOUT
AND COUNCIL MEMBERS DISCUSSING
NO IT'S NOT WHAT'S BEEN
REMOVED.
OK, MY APOLOGIES.
>> NO THAT'S OK.
THAT'S OK.
SO I DO HOPE THAT WE CAN WORK
MORE COLLABORATIVELY TOGETHER
IN THIS PROCESS AND JUST THINK
ABOUT VARIOUS IMPACT.
BUT I DO BELIEVE THAT THIS WILL
BE THE GREATEST BENEFIT FOR ALL
OF OUR RESIDENTS TO HAVE MORE
HOUSING COUNCIL.
>> BRACKMAN THINGS THAT HAVE
ALREADY BEEN SAID AND THAT I
ALREADY STARTED THE FIRST
READING BUT WE ALSO JUST NEED
TO BE AWARE OF THE CONTEXT IN
WHICH WE'RE OPERATING AND KNOW
THERE ARE FORCES THAT ARE
BEYOND OUR CONTROL THAT I THINK
AS A BODY WHERE WE HAVE A
RESPONSIBILITY TO RESPOND TO.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS ON MY
MIND BECAUSE IT'S IN THE FOURTH
WARD IS THE UNIVERSITY SCOOPING
UP A HUGE BLOCK OF LAND SO THAT
THEY CAN BUILD STUDENT HOUSING.
SO YOU KNOW, THIS IS THIS
PRESSURE IS HERE AND I'M GLAD
THAT THE UNIVERSITY IS
EXPANDING ITS ON CAMPUS HOUSING
AND I THINK THAT WE ALSO HAVE A
RESPONSIBILITY TO BE RESPONSIVE
TO THE GROWING STUDENT
POPULATION THAT'S FOR
DISCUSSION CAST MEMBER BASE I
DON'T HAVE COMMENTING ON IT BUT
I WILL ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
DISTURBED ME ABOUT THE TONE
OF THIS PUBLIC HEARING WAS THE
LEVEL OF ANIMOSITY THAT SOME
SOME NEIGHBORS TREATED OTHER
NEIGHBORS AND I HEARD I HEARD
PUBLIC COMMENTERS CALL EACH
OTHER OUT BY NAME AND I HEARD I
HEARD FOLKS SPEAK FAIRLY
DISPARAGING ABOUT OTHER MEMBERS
OF OUR COMMUNITY AND I
UNDERSTAND THAT THIS IS A THIS
IS THIS IS A THIS IS A PROJECT
WITH A LOT OF DIVERGENT
VIEWPOINTS AND IT IS IT'S
CHALLENGING AS WE GROW TO
UNDERSTAND AND WE HAVE
DIFFERENCES OF OPINION ABOUT
WHAT THOUGHTFUL GROWTH LOOKS
LIKE AND AND HOW WE'RE GOING TO
ACHIEVE OUR GOALS.
BUT YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT WE
NEED TO TAKE CARE WITH EACH
OTHER THAT AS WE GO THROUGH
THESE COMMENTS, GO THROUGH
THESE THESE PERIODS OF TIME
WITH EACH OTHER AS WE ADVOCATE
FOR HOUSING GROWTH THAT WE KNOW
TO RESPECT THE MEMBERS
OF COMMUNITY THAT ARE ALREADY
HERE THAT THOSE WHO WHO WHO ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT GROWTH IN THE
COMMUNITY RECOGNIZE THAT WE'RE
WRESTLING WITH REALLY
CHALLENGING ISSUES AND WE'RE
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHAT ARE
THE BEST WAYS TO SOLVE THEM.
AND FOLKS HAVE SPOKEN
ELOQUENTLY AROUND SORT OF THE
THE THE GREAT DEMAND THAT WE
HAVE FOR HOUSING HERE AND SO I
JUST I GUESS CAUTION ALL OF US
TO CONSIDER THE IMPACT OF OUR
WORDS ON EACH OTHER, ON OUR
NEIGHBORS FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNTS FOR SO LONG AND AND
APPRECIATIVE I WAS TO HEAR FROM
OUR PROGRAMS PROGRAM PROVIDERS
FOR SOCIAL SERVICES AND OUR
COMMUNITY AND HOW THE STRUGGLES
WITH HOMELESSNESS IS DIRECTLY
RELATED TO HOUSING SUPPLY.
>> UM, IF YOU READ HUD REPORTS
LATE AT NIGHT LIKE OTHER
HOUSING NERDS, YOU'LL YOU'LL
KNOW THE HOUSING SUPPLY CAUSES
HOMELESSNESS.
IT'S A DIRECT RELATIONSHIP.
SO IF WE CAN FEEL FOR THIS
DAILY WORK, THIS FIGHT FOR
FUNDING FOR OUR LOCAL AGENCIES
AT THE CITY AND COUNTY LEVEL TO
CHASE DOWN STATE DOLLARS IN
FEDERAL DOLLARS, THE LEAST THAT
WE CAN DO LOCALLY IS SPEAK TO
THAT BY PROVIDING SUPPLY.
>> UM
, YES.
HOMELESSNESS IS A REFLECTION
OF LACK OF SUPPORT FOR MENTAL
ILLNESS, SUBSTANCE ABUSE
DISORDER BUT IT IS WORSENED BY
HOUSING SHORTAGES AND WHERE WE
HAVE THE HIGHEST HOUSING COSTS
IS WHERE WE HURT OUR MOST
SOCIALLY VULNERABLE PEOPLE
WE
CAN'T BUILD MORE TEMPORARY
SHELTERS THAT WE BUILT HOUSING
EVERYONE DESERVES HOUSING, WE
ARE HOUSING FIRST COMMUNITY
WE'RE A MODEL.
THE REASON WHY WE DON'T SEE
MORE HOMELESSNESS IN OUR COUNTY
IS BECAUSE OF THE CONCERT
EFFORT.
THERE ARE AGENCIES HAVE WORKED
THROUGH THROUGH THE PANDEMIC.
SO I HOPE THAT WE CAN CONSIDER
THE VOICES THAT WE HEARD
TONIGHT IN APPROVING THIS.
IT IS CONNECTED.
YOU CAN SPEAK TO THEM.
YOU CAN SPEAK TO THE SOCIAL
WORKERS.
THEY WILL SAY THE SAME THING
HOUSING SUPPLY DIRECTLY
CONTRIBUTES TO HOMELESSNESS.
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
>> FOR MY PART I AM I HAVE
CONCLUDED THAT THE THE PUBLIC
BENEFIT REQUIRED BY THE PUDI
FOR THE VARIOUS REASONS
ARTICULATED AT THE TABLE AND
OTHERS HAS INDEED BEEN MET AND
SO I WILL BE VOTING IN FAVOR
OF THE PROJECT THIS EVENING.
IT IS OF COURSE TRUE THAT THAT
ALL PROJECTS ARE ALL MATERIAL
CHANGES IN PEOPLE'S GEOGRAPHY
COMES AT COMES WITH WITH WITH
COST OF CHANGE AND COST
OF CHANGE IS REAL AND IT
AFFECTS PEOPLE'S LIVES AND IT I
THINK AS COUNCIL MEMBER BRINGS
TO THAT TO WHICH AS SHE WAS
ALLUDING IT IT MUST BE HONORED
BECAUSE IT IS IT'S PART OF WHAT
MAKES PEOPLE FEEL FEEL SECURE
IN THEIR HOMES AND THEIR
COMMUNITIES AT THE SAME TIME.
I ALSO LIKE THE MEMBERS MANY
OF THE MEMBERS OF THIS TABLE
HAVE CONCLUDED THAT WE DO HAVE
A HOUSING CRISIS AND HOUSING
CRISIS IS IS IT A SUBSTANTIAL
CHALLENGE AND IMPEDIMENT TO THE
LONG TERM SUCCESS OF OUR
COMMUNITY?
IT HAS SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES.
IT HAS CONSEQUENCES THAT ARE
PERSONAL TO TO COMMUNITY
MEMBERS AND IT HAS ECONOMIC
CONSEQUENCES.
WE HAVE A SUPPLY
.
WE ARE SUPPLY CONSTRAINED AND
WE HAVE BEEN SO WITH
INTENTIONALITY AND IT HAS
RESULTED IN THE COMMUNITY THAT
WE HAVE THE COMMUNITY THAT WE
HAVE IS ECONOMICALLY SEGREGATED
AND BECAUSE OF AMERICA IT IS IT
IS YOU KNOW, RACIALLY
SEGREGATED AND THAT'S NOT OK.
THAT'S YOU KNOW, NOT GOING TO
BE SOLVED TO A CONCLUSION WITH
WITH THIS PROJECT.
BUT THIS PROJECT IS ONE IN A
LINE OF PROJECTS IN WHICH WE
WILL FOCUS ON CREATING HOUSING
SUPPLIES THAT WE CAN WORK TO TO
EFFECT AND ACCOMPLISH LONG TERM
COMMUNITY CHANGE AND I BELIEVE
COMMUNITY BENEFIT FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED
THESE THREE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION TWO
SIX THREE OF CHAPTER 29 WATER
RATES OF TITLE TWO OF THE
CODE OF THE SEA IN ANN ARBOR.
I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG SECOND BY
COUNCILOR OUR DISCUSSION OF THE
THREE COUNCIL BRITISH PROBABLY
IS TRUE I HAVEN'T LOOKED IT UP
BUT THAT WE HAVE DOUBLED OUR
WATER RATES OVER THE COURSE
OF A DECADE AND IT IS A FEE FOR
SERVICE.
THE SERVICE IS WATER DELIVERY
AND THE SERVICE REQUIRES
INCREASED STRUCTURE.
THIS COUNCIL AND PREVIOUS
RECENT COUNCILS HAVE HAD THE
COURAGE TO VOTE RESPONSIBLY FOR
THE UPKEEP OF INFRASTRUCTURE.
I HAVE SOME MATH IN LESS THAN
TWO DECADES ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY MILES OF WATER
INFRASTRUCTURE IN ANN ARBOR
WILL REACH THE END OF ITS
USEFUL LIFE.
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY MILES
OF WATER INFRASTRUCTURE OUR
WATER TREATMENT PLANTS UPGRADE
IS A TEN YEAR POSTLE EVEN ONE
HUNDRED MILLION DOLLAR PROJECT
THAT PROJECT PRESERVES OUR
AUTONOMY OVER OUR WATER RATES
AND WATER QUALITY VOTING FOR
WATER RATES THAT TAKE
INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS INTO
ACCOUNT MAKES US RESPONSIBLE
STEWARDS OF THE WATER SYSTEM
THAT WE USE TODAY AND FUTURE
GENERATIONS WILL USE AFTER US
AND I AM SORRY IF IT MAKES ME
LESS POPULAR BUT I WILL
CONTINUE TO VOTE FOR WATER
INCREASES AND I WILL REMIND
PEOPLE TO THAT THERE IS SUPPORT
IN THE BARRIER BUSTERS PROGRAM
AND THAT'S ALSO A PROGRAM THAT
TO WHICH ONE CAN GIVE AS WELL
AS TAKE.
SO IF YOU'RE IN A POSITION TO
GIVE TO IT YOU DO THAT MEMBER
BRIDGE.
I APPRECIATE COUNCIL MEMBER
SPEAKING TO THE THE ONGOING
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT NEEDS THAT
OUR CITY HAS AND THE REASON
THAT WE DO PLANNING IS TO
UNDERSTAND, YOU KNOW, WHAT LIES
AHEAD OF US AND TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE HAVE THE RESOURCES TO
TO FUND THAT.
>> IT'S DISAPPOINTING WHEN WE
HEAR FROM MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC
WHO SHOULD KNOW MORE BASED ON
THEIR EXPERIENCE ON COUNCIL
ABOUT WHAT THE PROCESSES ARE
AND ALSO PROVIDE FACTUAL
INACCURACIES AROUND HOW THE
PROCESSES WORK.
NEW DEVELOPMENT DOES PAY FOR
ITSELF.
WE DO NOT CURRENT RESIDENTS DO
NOT PAY FOR THAT WHEN A NEW NEW
DEVELOPMENT COMES AND ONE
OF THE ONE OF THE THINGS
THEY'RE REQUIRED TO DO IS MAKE
SURE THAT THEY UPGRADE THE SIZE
OF THE LINES IF AND AND PAY FOR
THAT THAT INCREASE IN
INFRASTRUCTURE.
IN FACT THAT'S ONE OF THE
THAT'S THE ONGOING CONCERNS
THAT WE HEAR FROM THEM IN TERMS
OF WHAT THAT LINK WITH THOSE
ENORMOUS COST ARE.
SO NEW INFRASTRUCTURE IS PAYING
FOR ITSELF.
WE ARE REALLY TRYING TO ADDRESS
THE CAPITAL INFRASTRUCTURE
NEEDS THAT THAT WE THAT WE
HAVEN'T BEEN THAT HAVE BEEN
DEGRADING AND COMING TO THE END
OF THEIR LIFE DISCUSSION.
OH, I THINK THEIR WATER TOWARDS
THE MASTERS HAS BEEN VERY
SUCCESSFUL AND VERY INFORMATIVE
,INCLUDING REVIEWS OF HOW WE
HOW WHY WE CHARGE WATER AND
SEWER RATES AND I UNDERSTAND
ALL SIXTH GRADERS THROUGH IN
OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS ATTEND A
WATER PLANT TO OUR FACILITIES
SO I FEEL LIKE MY HOPE IS THAT
EVERY SIXTH GRADER IN THE CITY
UNDERSTANDS WHY AND HOW WE
CHANGE.
WE CHANGED WATER AND SEWER
RATES.
IT'S ALSO ON OUR WEBSITE
INCLUDING THE THERE IS
DASHBOARD'S THE INITIAL
ANALYSIS WE'VE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT THIS SINCE TWENTY
SEVENTEEN SO THE SIXTH GRADER
WHO GOES THROUGH THAT TOUR NOW
WHAT ARE THEY LIKE TEN YEARS
OLD THEY SHOULD KNOW THIS
PRETTY PRETTY WELL.
SO I WOULD HOPE THAT THE DOLZ
IN OUR COMMUNITY WILL
UNDERSTAND THEIR BILLING AND
HOW WATER IS CHARGED.
>> THERE'S ALSO A YOUTUBE VIDEO
SHOULD SHOULD THE ACTUAL STUDY
BE A BIT LONG AND DIFFICULT?
>> THE VIDEO'S AMAZING FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
FOR MY PART I'D LIKE TO YEAH.
BUT UH ECHO THE THE ASSERTION
WHICH HAPPENS TO BE TRUE THAT
WE ARE LEGALLY OBLIGATED TO
LINK THAT OUR COST OF PROVIDING
SERVICE WITH THE COST THE OUR
COST OF GIVING US THE COST
OF SERVICE WITH THE COST
OF SERVICE AND THAT IS EXACTLY
WHAT WE ARE DOING.
WE ARE ENSURING THAT THE
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WE ARE
CURRENTLY USING IS PAYING FOR
AND THAT WE'RE ENSURING THAT
THE THAT IT IS PROPERLY
CAPITALIZED FOR THE
IMPROVEMENTS THAT ARE BUILT
INTO THE SYSTEM THAT ARE
NECESSARY FOR THE SYSTEM AS IT
REACHES AS SO MANY COMPONENTS
OF IT WILL THEIR THE END
OF THEIR NATURAL LIFE.
WE ARE HERE TO PROVIDE TO
PROVIDE WATER SERVICE TO
PROVIDE CLEAN WATER IN THIS
CONTEXT AND THE WAY THAT WE DO
THAT IS IS LINKED WITH THE COST
OF PROVIDING THE SERVICE, THE
COST OF THE TREATMENT, THE COST
OF THE DISTRIBUTION, THE MANNER
IN WHICH WE WE DO SO I BELIEVE
IS WELL SUPPORTED AND AND
PRUDENT AS WE CONSIDER BOTH THE
BENEFIT OF EXISTING RESIDENTS
AND THE THE TEAMS OF OUR LONG
TERM NEEDS FURTHER DISCUSSION
FAVRE POSED IT IS APPROVED
BEFORE AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND
SECTION TWO SIX NINE OF CHAPTER
TWENTY NINE STORMWATER RATES
OF TITLE TWO OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY.
BANABA MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE
MOVE BY COUNTY.
>> WE ARE NOW SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS DISCUSSION IN
FAVOR POSED IT'S APPROVED B
FIVE AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
SECTION 264 OF CHAPTER TWENTY
NINE SEWER RATES OF TITLE TWO
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY BANABA
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B FIVE ON
FAVOR O OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED
D ONE WE'LL TAKE A BREAK AFTER
THIS RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
SEVEN ELEVEN CHURCH D SITE PLAN
AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT MAKE
A MOTION PLEASE MOVE ALMOST A
MOVE BY COUNCILOR CARR BECAUSE
YOU THE WAY YOU RAISE YOUR HAND
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CARNESECCA BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S DISCUSSION PLEASE OF D.
>> S ONE PER PRIOR AND THIS IS
THE LAST TIME YOU'LL HAVE THE
PLEASURE OF HEARING THIS
ALTHOUGH PROPERLY NOTICED THIS
PUBLIC HEARING ALTHOUGH THIS
NOTICE WHAT THIS ALTHOUGH THIS
PUBLIC HEARING WAS INDEED
PROPERLY NOTICED, WE HAVE
CHANGED THE LOCATION OF OUR
MEETING FROM CITY COUNCIL
CHAMBERS TO TO COMMUNITY
TELEVISION NETWORK.
IT IS CONCEIVABLE THAT SOME
PERSONS WHO WISH TO SPEAK AT
PUBLIC HEARING DID INDEED COME
TO THE CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS
AND WERE UNABLE TO FIND THEIR
WAY TO A TELEPHONE OR ZOOM OR
TO THESE CHAMBERS AT C10 ONCE
THEY LEARNED OF THE ONCE THEY
LEARNED OF THE CHANGE ALTHOUGH
WE MADE EVERY EFFORT TO AFFECT
THAT COMMUNICATION AND TO MAKE
SURE THAT FOLKS KNEW WHERE TO
GO AND HOW TO GET HERE AND SO
IN AN ABUNDANCE OF CAUTION, IS
THERE ANYBODY IN HOUSE OR
ONLINE WHO WISHED TO SPEAK AT
THE PUBLIC HEARING ASSOCIATED
WITH SEVEN ELEVEN CHURCH PUDI
SITE PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT BUT WAS NOT ABLE TO
DO SO ON ACCOUNT OF THE
LOCATION CHANGE
?
>> I'M I'M AFRAID THAT YOU DO
SIR.
JUST JUST CHECKING IN DON'T ASK
DON'T GET IS THERE ANY IF
ANYONE IS ONLINE WHO IS IN THAT
CONDITION PLEASE ENTER STAR
NINE NOW
I DON'T HAVE ANYBODY
ONLINE PUT THEIR HANDS ON
C NO
ONE I WILL WELL I WILL CONCLUDE
THAT THERE ARE NO PERSONS WHO
ARE UNABLE TO SPEAK AT THE
PUBLIC HEARING AS A RESULT
OF LOCATION OF THE CHANGE AND
LOCATION OF OUR MEETING
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF D.C.
COUNCIL MEMBER JOSH TALKING
ABOUT HOW THE SITE PLAN AND
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AND I
WANT TO AGAIN SINCERELY
APOLOGIZE FOR ANY CONFUSION I
MIGHT HAVE CREATED BY NOT
ADDRESSING THE CHANGE IN THE
OTHER PART THAT SO I'M SO SORRY
COUNCIL MEMBER OF THE ADMIN AT
THIS POINT THOUGH THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WHICH
DOES NOT ATTACH TO THE ZONING
BUT RATHER ATTACHES TO SITE
PLAN INCLUDES GRANTING
EASEMENTS FOR PUBLIC ACCESS
ACROSS THE SITE BOUNDARIES THE
PRESERVATION OF A CHINQUAPIN OK
LANDMARK TREE A PARK
CONTRIBUTION WHICH IS A
VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTION TOTALING
JUST OVER JUST ABOUT ONE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS A DOWNTOWN PUBLIC
AMENITY CONTRIBUTION OF 250000
DOLLARS TO THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY WHICH
WILL BE USED TO HELP SUPPORT
OUR PUBLIC OUR OUR THRONE
INITIATIVE IN THE DOWNTOWN
WHICH IS OUR PUBLIC RESTROOMS
INSTALLING
SOLAR PANELS ON THE
ROOF PRODUCING AT LEAST ONE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE
THOUSAND KILOWATT HOURS PER
YEAR.
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CONTRIBUTION OF SEVEN POINT TWO
MILLION IN LIEU OF PROVIDING
UNITS ON SITE AND THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT ALSO AS
WE SAID BEFORE, THERE'S A TIED
TO THE ZONING IS THE
REQUIREMENT OF LEED GOLD BUT
THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
PROVIDES FOR A FINE IN CASE
OF A FAILURE TO ACHIEVE LEED
GOLD CERTIFICATION WITHIN TWO
YEARS OF THE CERTIFICATE
OF OCCUPANCY.
SO THOSE ARE THE FEATURES I
WOULD LIKE TO PUT FORWARD AND
TURN THE FLOOR OVER
ARE I WOULD
JUST LIKE TO STATE FOR MY PART
VERY BRIEFLY THAT I DO
APPRECIATE THE THE CONCERNS
RAISED HERE AND WITH RESPECT TO
THE PROXIMITY OF THIS
DEVELOPMENT WITH WITH THE CHILD
CARE CENTER, I'LL OBSERVE THAT
ALTHOUGH NOT PERHAPS AS
PRECISELY PROXIMATE THAT THERE
IS A CURRENT EXAMPLE OF A
COOPERATIVE NURSERY BEING RUN
DIRECTLY ACROSS THE STREET FROM
THAT IS TO SAY THE AT THE FIRST
METHODIST ON STATE STREET
DIRECTLY ACROSS THE STREET FROM
AN EXISTING DEVELOPMENT
CURRENTLY UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
SO THERE IS SOME FAMILIARITY IN
THAT REGARD AND FOR MY PART AT
LEAST I'VE HEARD NO CONCERNS
ALTHOUGH I UNDERSTAND THAT
THERE THAT THINGS ARE DIFFERENT
.
I TAKE SOME COMFORT IN THE GOOD
WORK DONE BY OUR BUILDING THE
KARPE DEPARTMENT.
I AM CONFIDENT THAT THE
BUILDING DEPARTMENT AS THEY
ENSURE THAT THE THE THE
BUILDING ONCE AND AS
CONSTRUCTED AND THE PROCESS
ITSELF THAT THE SAFETY OF THE
OF THE SITE ITSELF THE
PROXIMATE PROXIMATE INVITEES IN
THIS CASE THE THE CHILDREN AND
THEIR CAREGIVERS AND INDEED
OF COURSE THE LONG TERM
RESIDENTS OF THE BUILDING THAT
EVERYONE'S SAFETY IS A A AND
THE PRIMARY CONCERN THIS WILL
BE SOMETHING THAT WILL BE TAKEN
WITH EXTREME EARNESTNESS.
I AM HEARTENED TO KNOW OF THE
XANTHI CONVERSATION THAT THE
DEVELOPER HAS HAD WITH THE
UNIVERSITY AND HOPEFUL AND
WOULD EXPECT THAT IF THERE WERE
TANGIBLE CONCERNS THAT THEY
WOULD BE RAISED AND ADDRESSED
TO THE TO THE SATISFACTION
OF SAFETY.
FURTHER DISCUSSION WELL IN
FAVOR OPPOSED IS APPROVED.
LET US TAKE A SHORT BREAK.
IT IS TEN FOURTEEN NOW LET'S
RECONVENE AT TEN TWENTY FIVE
IT'S TEN TWENTY FIVE AND WE ARE
BACK AFTER A SHORT BREAK
DOWN
TO RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE
SUMMARY PUBLICATION
OF ORDINANCE TWO FOUR DASH SIX
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTIONS
FIVE TO EIGHT ONE B FIVE TO
NINE A FIVE TO NINE SIX AND
FIVE TO NINE EIGHT OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE OF THE SYDNEY
HARBOR MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGGS DISCUSSION PLEASE OF TWO
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH DEDE'S.
YES SORRY I'M SORRY YOU'RE OK.
THIS IS THE FIRST READING
OF SEVEN THIRTY TWO PACARD NO.
>> OH GOOD I KNEW I WAS WRONG.
I'M SO SORRY IT'S A SUMMARY
SUMMARY PUBLICATION
OF SOMETHING ELSE.
OH YEAH RIGHT WELL WE SHOULD DO
THAT IN RELIED RELIANCE UPON
COUNCIL MEMBERS DESTRUCTIVE
DACIAN I TOO WILL SUPPORT THE
RESOLUTION FURTHER DISCUSSION
ALL IN FAVOR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED C ONE AN ORDINANCE TO
AMEND THE ZONING MAP BEING A
PART OF SECTION FIVE TEN POINT
TWO OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
OF TITLE FIVE OF THE CODE OF
THE CITY BANABA OF ONE POINT
THREE ACRES R FOR MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT TO PUDI
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT SEVEN
THREE TWO PACARD PUDI ZONING
AND SUPPLEMENTARY MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER KORNEL
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER TWO YES SO
APPROVAL OF THIS ORDINANCE
WOULD REZONE TWELVE LOTS IN THE
BLOCK BOUNDED BY PACARD STREET
S STATE STREET AND ARCH STREET
FROM C ONE I R TO PUDI AND WE
WOULD BE ADOPTING SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS TO ALLOW A HIGH
RISE MULTIPLE FAMILY BUILDING
INCLUDING SUSTAINABILITY
FEATURES AND REQUIRED
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WHICH WILL
BE ACHIEVED BY A PAYMENT IN
LIEU THE PUDI EFFECTS A
COORDINATED DEVELOPMENT
OF TWELVE PARCELS FOR A MORE
EFFICIENT FOURTEEN STOREY
RESIDENTIAL REDEVELOPMENT
OF PARCELS THAT ARE LOCATED
WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE TO THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CENTRAL
CAMPUS TO OTHER HIGH DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT NEAR
TRANSIT CORRIDORS TO PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION ROUTES AND
RECREATION OF THE VENUES ON
CAMPUS WE CAN THINK ABOUT THE
EFFICIENCY OF THIS PROPOSAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THAT CONTEXT.
IT IT FURTHERS IDENTIFICATION
OF THAT PART OF TOWN.
WE CAN ALSO THINK ABOUT IT IN
THESE TERMS OF THE RELATIONSHIP
OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT TO THE
EXISTING UNDERLYING DENSITY.
SO THE PROJECT WILL BE TWO
POINT SIX TIMES THE UNDERLYING
DENSITY OF THE EXISTING ZONING
WHICH IS CURRENTLY THREE
HUNDRED FLOOR AREA RATIO.
THIS PROJECT WOULD BE 795 FLOOR
AREA RATIO SO TWO POINT SIX
TIMES IT WILL DELIVER.
HOWEVER THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY SIX UNITS OF HOUSING
WHICH IS MORE THAN TEN TIMES
THE NUMBER OF DWELLING UNITS
THAT THE PARCELS CURRENTLY
PROVIDE WHICH IS THIRTY THREE
THIRTY THREE DWELLING UNITS.
SO THAT'S A VERY GOOD RATIO
OF DENSITY INCREASE TO HOUSING
UNIT INCREASE.
THIS PROJECT PROVIDES DIVERSITY
OF HOUSING.
THERE WILL BE RENTAL TOWNHOMES
AND RENTAL APARTMENTS.
THE DEVELOPERS OFFERING A
SIXTEEN PERCENT CONTRIBUTION TO
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WHICH IS A
LITTLE OVER 400000 DOLLARS OVER
THE REQUIREMENT OF THE ZONING
AND THAT WILL ACHIEVE BE
ACHIEVED AS I SAID BY A SIX
POINT SIX DOLLARS MILLION
PAYMENT IN LIEU THE BUILDING
WILL ACHIEVE LEED GOLD.
IT WILL INCORPORATE PASSIVE
HOUSE PRINCIPAL.
THERE WILL BE SOLAR PANELS
INTEGRATED INTO THE ROOF AND
NATURAL GAS WILL BE USED ONLY
FOR AUXILIARY HOT WATER
GENERATION AND ONLY BECAUSE
FULL ELECTRIFICATION IS NOT
ACHIEVABLE GIVEN THE CAPACITY
OF THE GRID IN THE AREA.
SO AS THE GRID CAPACITY GETS
BETTER THERE WILL BE LESS USE
OF ANY BACK UP TO MAKE SURE
THAT THERE'S ENOUGH HOT WATER
DURING PEAK SHOWERING TIMES.
WE ARE REALLY JUST TALKING
ABOUT MOVING THIS TO A PUBLIC
HEARING IN SECOND READING AND I
HOPE I'VE GIVEN YOU ENOUGH
DETAIL ON IT
.
SO THE QUESTION WAS RAISED
DURING THE TIME THAT I WAS THAT
SOMEBODY ON STAFF MIGHT BE ABLE
TO JUST ELABORATE A LITTLE BIT
ON THE QUESTIONS RAISED
REGARDING 716 PACARD THAT
ESSENTIALLY WONDERING WHAT WAS
INVOLVED IN THE IMPACT ANALYSIS
ON ADJACENT PARCELS AND THE
NOTES IN THE STAFF REPORT NOTE
THAT THE STANDARD HAS BEEN MET
BUT I WAS JUST HOPING THAT
STAFF MIGHT BE ABLE TO
ELABORATE A LITTLE BIT ON THAT
COMPONENT SINCE THAT WAS A
QUESTION THAT GOT RAISED WITHIN
THE CONTEXT OF PUBLIC COMMENT.
I WOULD ACKNOWLEDGE THE SHADING
ON THE ON THE ON THE IMAGING IS
A LITTLE LITTLE QUESTIONABLE
FOR THAT.
BUT COUNCIL OR TWO OF OUR OTHER
TONIGHT WE DID NOT DO A WRITTEN
WRITE A DETAILED WRITTEN RIGHT
UP FOR EVERY SINGLE PARCEL IN
ANY TYPE OF VICINITY WHETHER
OUR ANALYSIS IS WHAT ARE THE
IMPACT, WHAT ARE THE USES, ARE
THEY COMPATIBLE?
WHAT IS THE SURROUNDING
CHARACTER OF THE PROPERTY SO WE
HAVE WE FEEL THAT WE HAVE DONE
AN ANALYSIS AND HAVE CONCLUDED
THAT IT MEETS THE STANDARDS
OF APPROVAL FOR THE ZONING
DISTRICT.
>> BUT WE HAVE NOTHING FURTHER
THERE'S NO SPECIFIC SEPARATE
REPORT FOR THE DISCUSSION
FOR
THE REASONS AT LEAST IN PART
THAT FOR THE REASONS STATED BY
COUNCILOR DISH ETC. I TOO AM
GOING TO BE SUPPORTING THE THE
THE RESOLUTION I LOOK FORWARD
TO THE FURTHER CONSIDERATION
OF THE THE PUDI AT THE SECOND
READING AND I WOULD JUST LIKE
TO EXPRESS MY GRATITUDE FOR A
STATEMENT OF COUNCIL TO COUNCIL
WITH RESPECT TO THE WITH
RESPECT TO THE EXHIBITS AND AT
LEAST PROVIDE MY ASSURANCE AND
I SUSPECT WITHOUT KNOWING THIS
ASSURANCE OF OTHERS THAT AT NO
TIME WAS THERE ANY CONFUSION
WITH REGARD TO THE PRESENCE
OF THE BUILDING THAT BEL'S
PIZZA AS WAS NOW NOW DOMINO'S
IT'S A FIXTURE AND I THINK WELL
KNOWN AND NOTORIOUS THAT THAT
BUILDING EXISTS AND CERTAINLY I
HAVE KNOWN ABOUT IT FOR DECADES
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FABER.
>> WELL THE POST IS APPROVED.
DO YOU SEE ONE RESOLUTION TO
ORDER ELECTION AND TO DETERMINE
BALLOT QUESTION FOR CHARTER
AMENDMENT FOR CREATION OF A
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE A
THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
IS THE NEXT CRUCIAL STEP
TOWARDS ACCOMPLISHING A TWO
ZERO THAT IS TO SAY A COMMUNITY
WIDE CARBON NEUTRALITY BY 2030
ACCOMPLISHED THROUGH JUST AND
EQUITABLE MEANS IT IS A
SUPPLEMENTAL UTILITY LAYERED ON
TOP OF THE CURRENT PROVIDER.
IT WILL PROVIDE RESIDENTS WHO
CHOOSE TO JOIN THE EU WITH
RESILIENT RELIABLE RATE
COMPETITIVE 100 PERCENT
RENEWABLE ENERGY ENERGY THAT
WILL WITHSTAND A STORM ENERGY
WITHOUT RANDOM OUTAGES ALL WITH
NO NEW TAXES AND ABBOTT'S
VISION OF THE EU GENERATES
POWER THROUGH LOCAL RENEWABLE
ENERGY INSTALLATION SUCH AS AN
EXCUSE TO INSTALL BATTERIES AND
SOLAR SYSTEMS TO PROVIDE POWER
TO HOMES OR BUSINESSES,
MICROGRANTS OR GEOTHERMAL
SYSTEMS THAT WILL ALLOW
NEIGHBORS BUSINESSES TO SHARE
POWER GENERATED BY
APPROXIMATELY IN ADDITION TO
PROVIDING POWER FROM THESE
LOCAL RELIABLE, RESILIENT
RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES, YOU
WILL PROVIDE SERVICES SUCH ON A
MUCH MORE HOLISTIC BASIS ENERGY
WASTE REDUCTION UPGRADES
SUPPORT WITH BENEFICIAL
ELECTRIFICATION APPLIANCES AND
INNOVATIVE CUSTOMER FOCUSED
BILLING AND PAYMENT OPTIONS
THAT THE CURRENT PROVIDER DOES
NOT AUTHORIZE IN TERMS
OF SERVICE.
HERE ARE SOME EXAMPLES IF YOU
WANT SOLAR IN YOUR HOME THE YOU
COULD PURCHASE AND INSTALL THE
PANELS FOR YOU AND LOWER YOUR
ELECTRICITY BILL IMMEDIATELY IF
YOU WANT SOLAR ON YOUR HOME AND
A BATTERY IN YOUR BASEMENT, THE
SIU COULD PURCHASE AND INSTALL
THEM FOR YOU AND YOU WOULD
IMMEDIATELY PAY LESS THAN YOU
DO NOW FOR THE ELECTRICITY AND
THE FOSSIL GAS GENERATOR
TOGETHER IF YOU ALREADY HAVE
SOLAR ON YOUR HOME ONCE WE
DEPLOY MICRO GRIDS YOU COULD
SIGN UP FOR THE SIU AND LOWER
YOUR ELECTRICITY BILL
IMMEDIATELY.
THERE'S GOING TO BE MORE THE EU
WILL ALSO SERVE AS AN EXAMPLE
OF THE CITY OWNING AND
OPERATING A PUBLIC ENERGY
UTILITY FOR THE PUBLIC GOOD
RATIFYING OUR ABILITY TO
PROVIDE HIGH QUALITY, COST
EFFECTIVE, RELIABLE, RESILIENT
AND RENEWABLE ENERGY TO THOSE
CUSTOMERS WHO CHOOSE TO TAKE
THEIR SERVICE FROM THE CITY.
THE BOTTOM LINE IS THAT THE AND
ARBOR'S FUTURE IS
CARBON NEUTRAL AND THAT THE EU
IS A HIGH IMPACT, LOW COST PART
OF THAT EFFORT.
I'M INCREDIBLY EXCITED ABOUT
THE CONVERSATION WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE OVER THE NEXT FEW MONTHS
ABOUT THE EU AND THE ROLE THAT
IT PLAYS IN ADVANCING OUR
IMMEDIATE H0 GOALS AND THE
BENEFIT THAT IT WILL ACCRUE FOR
AN ARBORS LONG TERM ENERGY
FUTURE.
THE DISCUSSION DENHA.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WANT TO LET YOU KNOW I DON'T
HAVE MUCH TO ADD BEYOND WHAT
YOU JUST SAID REGARDING THE
BENEFITS OF AN AND I'M
INCREDIBLY EXCITED TO SUPPORT
THIS BUT I DO WANT TO JUST
THANK STAFF AND ENERGY
COMMISSION PARTICULARLY FOR ALL
OF THE WORK THAT HAS GONE INTO
GETTING US TO WHERE WE ARE
TODAY.
>> THIS IS NOT JUST SOMETHING
THAT COULD BE EXCITING FOR OUR
COMMUNITY AND FOR OUR H0 GOALS
BUT COULD REALLY BE SOMETHING
THAT RESHAPES THE WAY THAT
MUNICIPALITIES LOOK AT
PROVIDING CLEAN RENEWABLE
ENERGY TO RESIDENTS THROUGHOUT
THE STATE.
I KNOW THAT DR. STULTS HAS HAD
CONVERSATIONS WITH FOLKS AT A
STATE LEVEL ABOUT ABOUT WHAT WE
WANT TO DO HERE AND HOW THAT
COULD BE REPLICATED ELSEWHERE.
AND SO WE NOT ONLY HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO PROVIDE THIS
EXCEPTIONAL SERVICE TO OUR
COMMUNITY AND TO ADVANCE OUR
GOALS ON CARBON NEUTRALITY BUT
ALSO TO POTENTIALLY SET THE
STANDARD FOR OTHER COMMUNITIES
TO FOLLOW.
I ALSO WANT TO BRIEFLY THANK
MEMBERS OF HP TOO WHO HAVE
ENGAGED WITH THE MAYOR AND
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS AND I OVER
THE LAST COUPLE OF WEEKS AND
POSSIBLY OTHERS AS WELL.
BUT I KNOW THE THREE OF US HAVE
HAD A NUMBER OF CONVERSATIONS
WITH THEM ABOUT SOME INITIAL
CONCERNS THAT THEY RAISED.
I THINK WE ARE MOVING IN A
DIRECTION THAT IS CLOSER
TOGETHER NOW AND AND SO I AM
HOPEFUL FOR THEIR CONTINUED
SUPPORT OF THIS AS WELL MOVING
FORWARD.
BUT I AM INCREDIBLY EXCITED TO
BE SUPPORTING THIS AND
SPONSORING THIS TONIGHT AND
LOOK FORWARD TO VOTING FOR IT
THIS FALL DUE TO VERY LITTLE TO
SAY OTHER THAN THAT I AM ALSO
VERY EXCITED TO CO-SPONSOR
THIS.
I'M REALLY GRATEFUL TO OUR
LEGAL TEAM AND OSFI AND THE
ENERGY COMMISSION FOR DESIGNING
IT AND I'M PLEASED TO SAY THAT
I'M ALREADY HAVING HAPPY
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT IT AT
RESIDENTS DOORS FOR THE
DISCUSSION
OR WE'LL NEVER TRY
AND NEVER LETTING UP A NEVER
LOOKING TO PASS UP AN
OPPORTUNITY TO PRAISE STAFF AND
FOR THE GOOD WORK THAT THEY'VE
DONE.
I'D LIKE TO SORT OF FOR MY PART
TO ECHO ECHO THANKS TO DR
STULTS AND THE STAFF AT OSSI
AND THE STAFF AND LEGAL AND IN
PUBLIC SERVICES TO FOR THEIR
CONVERSATIONS AND THE GREAT AND
GOOD WORK THAT HAS BEEN DONE
OVER THE COURSE OF TIME TO GET
US HERE TODAY THE ENERGY
COMMISSION AS WELL NATURALLY
AND AND ALL THE MEMBERS
OF COMMUNITY WHO HAVE
PARTICIPATED IN THE ENVISIONING
CREATION AND HAVE TAKEN
OWNERSHIP OF THE IMPLEMENTATION
OF OUR ZERO PROGRAM.
THE SIU HAS BEEN AN IMPORTANT
PART OF A TWO ZERO.
IT IS A CRUCIAL ELEMENT FOR US
TO ATTAIN OUR GOAL OF CARBON
NEUTRALITY BY 2030 AND IT IS A
TESTAMENT TO TO THE VISION AND
OF OUR WHOLE COMMUNITY STAFF
COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND AND
COUNCIL.
YOU KNOW, WE GOT A LITTLE BIT
OF CREDIT HERE TOO TO TO
ACCOMPLISH THIS THIS CRUCIAL
AND STRATEGIC AIM FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OPPOSED IT
IS APPROVED 11 COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ARE ALL VOTING IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING THE
SEVEN VOTE REQUIREMENT DC TWO
RESOLUTION TO REPLACE COUNCIL
LIAISON TO THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION MOVED BY COUNCILOR
SUPPORTED BY COUNCIL IVAN
WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
TWO COUNCIL MEMBERS ON UM I
JUST WANT TO SEND MY
APPRECIATION FOR COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON FOR BEING OPEN TO
SERVING IN THIS CAPACITY AMONG
OTHER WHILE SERVING ON MANY
OTHER COMMITTEES.
>> THIS IS A REFLECTION ON NOT
THAT I I LOVE HRC.
I REALLY DO BUT THIS IS IN
SUPPORT OF SOME CHALLENGING
TIMES THAT I HAVE PERSONALLY
WITH WITH EXTENDED FAMILY AND
MEDICAL ISSUES.
SO I CANNOT THINK COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON ENOUGH FOR BEING
OPEN TO US AND THEN ALSO
COUNCIL MEMBER CASIAS EDWIN FOR
CONTINUING THIS WORK AND
LEADERSHIP AND THAT COMMITTEE.
SO I'M HAPPY TO STEP UP AND
THIS IS ON THE AGENDA TONIGHT
SO I CAN MAKE THE MEETING ON
WEDNESDAY.
THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL REGARDS THE OTHER ONE
JUST AFTER THE COURSE.
>> I AM VERY EXCITED THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON WILL BE
JOINING US AND YOU BRING JUST
SO MUCH KNOWLEDGE EXPERTIZE AND
THE SOCIAL SERVICE AREA.
SO WE ARE EXCITED AND COUNCIL
MEMBERS WILL BE MOST FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
WELL, FAVOR OPPOSED.
IT IS APPROVED.
MISS CORPS, DO WE HAVE THE
PLEASURE OF A CLOSED SESSION
TODAY?
WE HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO GO
INTO CLOSED SESSION FOR THE
BASE ON THE BASIS OF THE NATURE
OF THE PURCHASE OR LEAVE
OF YOUR PROPERTY BY COUNCIL
MEMBER SECONDED BY COUNCILOR
KERNELL DISCUSSION ROLL CALL
PLEASE.
STARTING WITH OVER AFTER
ELSMERE.
>> YES.
>> BRIGG YES.
COUNCILOR CORNELL.
YES, THAT'S MY ISH.
YES CUSTOMER HARRISON YEAH
THAT'S MY SONG CUSTOMER WATSON
.
YES I'M VERY DENHA YEAH.
CUSTOMER OUTSIDE ONE YES MAYOR
TAYLOR YES THAT'S WHERE I ER
YES MOTION CARRIES WE ARE IN
CLOSED SESSION
WE ARE BACK BUT
FROM COAST I NEED TO GO BACK
INTO OPEN SESSION MUBI
COUNTERBATTERY A SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA DISCUSSION
ON FAVRE POSED WE ARE BACK IN
OPEN SESSION WE HAVE BEFORE THE
CLERKS REPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS MAMBI
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
SUPPORT MOVE BY COUNCILMAN
QUENELLE SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED THE CLERKS REPORT
IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FOR OUR INDOMITABLE CITY
ATTORNEY PUBLIC COMMENT HAVING
BEEN INCLUDED IN THE PRIOR
SESSION MAY HAVE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN MCCONNELL SECOND
ACCOUNTS FOR RACKMAN DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR OPPOSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED